Academic Staff

## Overview

What does it mean to be an \"academic\" staff member at UC Berkeley/CPL?

Academic staff are UC Berkeley employees focused on research-related
activities or teaching. They differ from \"regular\" staff, who
typically support program management or operational activities.
Technical staff at CPL--such as data scientists, some advisors, and the
Director of research\--are usually academic staff. They directly
contribute to faculty and/or visiting scholar research projects and
perform highly technical functions (like data visualization/science and
other research).

There are many different job categories within the Academic staff
stream. CPL typically hires Project Scientists (PhD required) and
Specialists.

Note that because academic positions are research-centric, the
University can easily sponsor work visas (J series). This means that
academic positions are a great way to address CPL\'s diversity goals.

## Recruitment Timeline {#recruitment_timeline}

Academic appointments can take 6 months to process!

## Steps for Academic Recruitment {#steps_for_academic_recruitment}

The recruitment process for Academic employees follows the same broad
steps as recruitment for regular staff employees but with some stark
differences. Note that the Academic Personnel Office (APO) manages
academic appointments (rather than CSS Human Resources).

**1. Create a Job Description:** as with any position, outline the role,
responsibilities, and reporting expectations. Note that the job
description format is usually different for academic appointments. Refer
to the guidelines for non-academic senate and postdoc appointments here
(ie education requirements for various levels of each title). The job
description (aka \"long ad\") must include the following - see OFEW\'s
Search Plan Checklist for additional requirements: a. It must be clear
where the work location is (ie: \"This position is based at the
University of California, Berkeley.\") b. The ad must indicate the
position is \"open until filled\" and should not include a deadline (ie:
\"The position is open until filled and applications will be reviewed on
a rolling basis.\") c. Do not include document requirements (ie CV,
cover letter) in the ad; this is automatically generated by APRecruit
when the candidate applies. d. HR Business Partner will add the
Affirmative Action/EEO statement e. Do not use qualifiers like
\"extensive experience,\" \"strong ability,\" etc. in criteria. Also,
the only value under \"basic qualifications,\" should be the degree
requirement (i.e. PhD) f. Note that required qualifications matter. If
you find a candidate you like but they do not meet the minimum
qualifications outlined in the job ad, we cannot hire them into the
position.

**2. Identify position academic title and get appropriate approval. CPL
usually uses these academic titles:** Specialist, Project Scientist.
Please reference the UCOP academic titles & qualifications page for
additional information on academic appointments. The Vice Chancellor for
Research Office does an initial review of the job description, APO is
responsible for ensuring the correct job classification, and the Office
for Faculty Equity and Welfare (OFEW) conducts a final review of the job
description and search plan to ensure adherence to recruitment rules.

**3. If the PI/hiring team has a candidate in mind, we will need to
submit the following in Service Now, but waivers are unlikely to be
approved:** a. Draft a Memo detailing the hire request (PDF) b. Search
waiver form - note: Office of Faculty Equity & Welfare (OFEW) no longer
accepts \"Specialized Area\" as a justification for approving a search
waiver for a non-senate appt. Please refer to this website for the 7
allowable justifications. The reasons in the memo have to align with one
of the seven categories mentioned in this website. c. Chartstring d. CV
e. If a visa is needed, include a copy of any current visa and passport

**4. If a recruitment is needed, we will need to submit the following in
Service Now:** a. Draft a Memo detailing the hire request (PDF) b.
Chartstring c. If a visa is needed, include a copy of any current visa
and passport

**5. The CPL HR Associate will submit the documents in Service Now:** Be
sure to add Director of Operations, Hiring Manager, HR Partner and
Finance Analyst (Mark or Shannon depending on the fund source) to the
watchlist. HR Partner will review the request and it will be assigned to
the appropriate person at APO. Note in the Service Now case the salary
range & step, and timeframe for the ad to be posted. CPL preferred
default is 90 days (minimum is 14 days). Also note the search committee
names for HR to add in the system (i.e. the CPL staff and faculty
involved in the interview and selection process).

**6. Desk space:** Seating is very limited! If there is no desk space
available, new staff may need to work remotely. Please discuss desk
space requests with the HR Associate at the start of the recruitment
process.

**7. Recruitment:** Outlets may remain the same, but should also include
more research/academic-focused sources, such as: American Evaluation
Association (AEA) JOE Listings, Science mag, Higheredjobs.com, Chronicle
of Higher Education, and Higher Education Recruitment Consortium (HERC)
-- per HR these sites automatically post new positions from UCB AP
Recruit jobs website onto their own when HR Recruitment posts them. Note
that the CPL diversity standards apply for academic appointments.

**8. Interviews and reference checks:** a. Follow mostly the same steps
as regular staff recruitment. b. This means that the hiring manager
should create a google spreadsheet to rank all candidates against the
search criteria like this one for staff or this (barebones) example for
academic recruitment. c. A minimum of three candidates must be
interviewed. d. Make sure to clearly identify who will be on the Search
Committee, as this will be needed for close-out. Also make sure to
clearly identify the selection criteria (also presented in the job
description in the AP Recruit system), as this will also be needed for
interviews and close-out. e. Interviews should be in-person and must be
conducted by the same people with the same questions for all candidates.
Interviewers must take detailed notes for each applicant and rank
responses against predetermined search criteria (presented in the job
description). f. Reference checks should be conducted over the phone
(but can be done via email if you hide it). Three reference checks
should be conducted for the finalist---absolute minimum of two.

**9. Compensation:** The Executive Director and Director of Operations
(sometimes with input from faculty as appropriate) determine salary
based on experience and salary scales (Project Scientist salary scale;
Specialist salary scale).

**10. Note on Visas:** International individuals are seldom hired into
regular staff roles because of visa requirements (unless they are on an
OPT visa). However, the process for sponsoring visa applicants is much
more straightforward for academic positions. This is because research
positions are often narrower in scope and require specific
skills/experience, which a broad candidate pool may not possess. See
Visa matrix h ere (also in resources below) for an overview of the
various types of visas and processes. Disclaimer: This overview can
serve as a reference, but questions about specific cases and individuals
should be directed to the HR Associate who will consult with CPL\'s HR
Partner and the Berkeley International Office (BIO), as the process can
be complex and there are legal implications to consider.

**11. Close-Out:** Once a candidate is selected and has accepted a soft
offer, here are the next steps to close out the recruitment and complete
the hiring. Please use the list below to help guide you through this and
any future non-senate recruitment efforts.

a\. Search Report Checklist - this includes applicant rankings,
selection criteria, and interview notes

b\. Standard Interview Questions -- this should be a word document
adapted from the interview google spreadsheet outlining interview

questions, candidate responses, and selection criteria. See example
here.

c\. Non-Senate Search Narrative - A write up detailing how the search
was conducted, who was involved, etc. See example here.

d\. References

e\. Appointment request letter -- A memo justifying why the selected
candidate should be hired. Include justification for off-scale salary
rates here. See example.

f\. Submit these completed documents by way of e-mail to HR Business
Partner and by updating the Service Now case for uploading into AP
Recruit (HR system for academic hires). Once in the system, the packet
will be reviewed and approved by campus, or the reviewer may request
additional information to make an informed decision. Any edits made will
need to be provided to anyone who previously reviewed and approved the
packet, to ensure they are abreast of any changes made after their
approval. The minimum duration of the approval process is 5 business
days, but can take longer.

g\. Notice of approval or denial will be provided to the Search
Committee by the HR Business Partner

**12. Notes on merit increases and contract renewals:** The performance
review and merit increase process for academic staff is different than
the process for regular staff. Academic staff are eligible for a merit
increase and contract renewal every 2 years. HR initiates this process
with the academic staff member. Resources

## Resources

-   [APO Academic Salary
    Scales](https://apo.berkeley.edu/compensation/2018-19-academic-salary-scales)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [and-goals APO Diversity
    Goals](https://ofew.berkeley.edu/recruitment/non-senate-searches/non-senate-search-guide/diversity-benchmarks-)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Specialist
    Series](https://www.ucop.edu/academic-personnel-programs/_files/apm/apm-330.pdf)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Project Scientist
    Series](https://www.ucop.edu/academic-personnel-programs/_files/apm/apm-311.pdf)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Sample Project Scientist Job
    Description](https://berkeley.box.com/s/0xnsbm6lma6ievzey6eidtvlglqa36ak)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Visa
    Matrix](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O9OHdDhDxqqUez1xCK8vHBIvzPZlTpsoD1oE_SQH_6c/edit)