Human resources are the people that make up an organization. CPL staff
and faculty\* are the Center's most important asset: they drive our
work, instill our values, and make up our internal community of
practice.

This suite of HR guidances outlines all components of CPL's HR
management \-- from recruitment and office policies, to 360 reviews and
remediation. It also includes sections on professional development,
diversity, mentoring, and work-life balance. We recognize that feeling
engaged and appreciated at work is important for all of us, and it can
pay dividends for organizational productivity. The Center's performance
improves when colleagues work together, feel valued, and have
opportunities to share and learn from one other. We try to promote a
positive culture that values families and invests in the development of
our talented workforce.

This is a centralized repository for all CPL HR policies and activities,
easily accessible to staff. As a research center housed within UC
Berkeley, CPL must also adhere to all campus HR policies, some of which
are referenced below.

The CPL Operations Manager and HR Associate are the first go-to contacts
for anything HR-related. The CSS HR Business Partner is CPL's campus HR
liaison, who processes recruitment, hiring, leave, and other paperwork.

Should you experience any challenges at CPL or UC Berkeley, you may
always contact your supervisor, Ops Associate/Manager, HR Business
Partner or OMNIBUDS.

-   For the purposes of this section of the wiki, "people" mostly
    pertains to employees and interns. See the \"affiliates\" section
    for more information about CPL's affiliated researchers.

## Mentoring

[Mentoring](https://www.wiki.capolicylab.org/index.php?title=Mentoring)

## Feedback

[Feedback](https://www.wiki.capolicylab.org/index.php?title=Feedback)

## Teambuilding

[Team
Building](https://www.wiki.capolicylab.org/index.php?title=Team_Building)

## Work-Life Balance {#work_life_balance}

[Work-Life
Balance](https://www.wiki.capolicylab.org/index.php?title=Work-Life_Balance)

## Housing Options {#housing_options}

[Housing Options (Berkeley
Location)](https://www.wiki.capolicylab.org/index.php?title=Housing_Options)-
\***\*\*(note for Evan: I want to create a pretty chart like CEGA does,
but I\'m not sure how to do it on wiki-still working on, but all the
info is in there)**

## Types of Staff {#types_of_staff}

-   [Academic
    Staff](https://www.wiki.capolicylab.org/index.php?title=Academic_Staff)