Skip to end of metadata Created by Corey Murray, last modified by Lauren
Russell on Dec 27, 2018 Go to start of metadata Purpose/Overview Board
Engagement Timeline Steps

## Purpose/Overview

The CPL External Advisory Board was established in 2010 to advise and
support the Center\'s fundraising endeavors and partnership development.
Each member is appointed for a one-year term, and is asked to contribute
to the Center through a combination of personally meaningful gifts
and/or outreach efforts to other potential supporters and partners.

The CPL External Advisory Board\'s purpose is to further the Center\'s
mission of improving global development outcomes through impact
evaluation, economic analysis, capacity building, and policy outreach.
Board activities center on fundraising and center development,
identifying opportunities for outside partnerships, and promoting
collaboration between academia and the private sector.

Board members are selected by CPL leadership, and appointments are
revisited annually. CPL selects board members who are motivated by our
mission and can contribute either by supporting fundraising and center
development, catalyzing partnerships, advising on strategy, or by making
a significant financial commitment.

## Board Engagement {#board_engagement}

Annual Board Meeting CPL holds one annual board meeting that usually
takes place in conjunction with CPL\'s biggest Center-wide annual event,
\"Evidence to Action\" (E2A). This is an opportunity to share Center
updates and brainstorm for the year ahead. It\'s also the one meeting
each year that board members are strongly encouraged to attend
in-person. Board Committees Board committees (aka sub-groups) are
decided upon at the annual board meeting based on the areas of greatest
need. The board should commit to no more than three committees annually.
Previous board committees met to discuss themes such as fundraising, E2A
prep, board growth, organizational development, policy engagement, and
domestic poverty. These meetings take place quarterly. CPL Events Board
members are invited to CPL events throughout the year, including E2A.
Board members are also encouraged to host small private events to
introduce CPL to their networks and help fundraise for the Center.
Quarterly Check-ins The Executive Director or Director of Operations
will either send quarterly CPL updates to board members or meet with
them in-person. This is a good way for board members to feel tuned-in to
the Center and also provides an opportunity for them to share contacts,
ideas, or support.

## Timeline

**July** - update Board Charge and send reappointment letters (details
on these materials are provided, below)

**August** - schedule individual meetings with board members

**September** - assemble program summaries and financials for Board
Book.

**October** - Board Book goes out 2 weeks before annual Advisory Board
Meeting

**November** - Annual Advisory Board Meeting scheduled in conjunction
with E2A

**Quarterly** - Board Committee meetings, drip-drop emails or meetings
with board members

## Steps

Annual planning for board engagement.

**Step One.** Review \"Board Charge\" document and make necessary edits.
Latest version of board charge here
<https://berkeley.app.box.com/file/53956889265>.

**Step Two.** Update \"Board Re-appointment Letter\" for each returning
board member. Recall that there are certain components that will be
different for each board member (name, term, regular member vs.
co-chair, funding commitment). See materials from recent re-appointment
letters here <https://berkeley.app.box.com/folder/9044578710>

**Step Three.** Reach out to each board member CC any assistants or
involved spouses If they are new: Request their photo and a
one-paragraph bio. Make sure to their info is listed on the CPL website
and in Salesforce. Ask to schedule a one-on-one meeting with CPL\'s
Fundraiser to discuss: Updates on CPL, and a quick, high-level overview
of what\'s going on now at the center, What they\'d like to be involved
with in the coming year/where they think they can add the most value
What they want to see/discuss at the meeting (and in the preparation
materials that would help them help us) If they know anyone in their
network who could be a promising lead for CPL.

**Step Four.** Send quarterly \"drip-drop\" emails. These are emails
with updates from the Center that help ensure board members feel
connected and stay aware of CPL throughout the year. This is also an
opportunity to ask for help with certain projects or donor relations