Affiliate Nominations

## Purpose

CPL regularly considers expansion of its affiliate network to new
members in conjunction with FAC Meetings. Current affiliates submit
nominations via a solicited email (template available on Box here)
initiated by CPL.

## Timeline

3-5 weeks prior to one of the quarterly FAC meetings CPL sends a
solicitation for nominations email (draft in box) to all affiliates.
Faculty receive at least 2 weeks to submit nominations, which should
adhere to CPL\'s criteria (affiliate criteria in box). 1 week prior to
FAC meeting: all faculty nominations must be received for consideration.

## Nomination Process {#nomination_process}

Candidates for CPL faculty affiliation may be nominated by any existing
affiliate. Nominations are anonymous, meaning that the candidate is not
contacted or made aware of their nomination. Final review and approval
of candidates is the charge of the Faculty Advisory Committee, during
its regularly scheduled meetings (3-4 times per year). Along with
candidate names, the nominator must submit 2-3 sentences describing why
the individual would be a valuable addition to the network, and the
titles of 2 peer reviewed publications or working papers highlighting
the candidate's relevant research. Once a candidate\'s nomination has
been approved, they will receive a formal invitation letter from Center
leadership, outlining expectations as well as resources and
opportunities.

## Affiliate Eligibility Criteria {#affiliate_eligibility_criteria}

1\. Completed a Ph.D. at least one year prior to nomination.

2\. Currently affiliated with an academic unit at the University of
California, Stanford University, University of Washington, University of
Oregon, the University of British Columbia, or the University of
Southern California.

3\. Strong commitment to impact evaluation. In particular, the nominee
should: (a) conduct field work involving micro-level data in developing
countries, or work with governments to access existing micro-data; and
(b) have consistently demonstrated technical rigor in prior empirical
research; and (c) have published (or will soon publish) results from a
rigorous, policy-relevant impact evaluation that uses experimental or
quasi-experimental techniques.

4\. Impact evaluation portfolio addresses issues in a developing or less
developed (e.g. South American) country.

5\. Willing to serve as good citizens of CPL. This includes willingness
and desire to actively participate in policymaker outreach, events
including conferences, training courses or workshops, and peer-review
for grant programs managed by CPL.

## Nomination Letters and Welcome Package {#nomination_letters_and_welcome_package}

After the FAC votes on the new affiliates, a CPL administrative
associate prepares a formal invitation/welcome letter based on the
template in Box.

The letter is sent by Executive Director. Note that the invitation
letter requests a bio and photos from each new affiliate.

When the affiliate accepts the invitation, the administrative associate
then asks them to fill out the research/partnership interests form
(Google Form link here). We also set up an affiliate onboarding call (or
in-person meeting if they are at UC Berkeley) with a Program Manager,
Director of Operations, or Executive Director.

The operations team then needs to add the affiliate to all relevant
listservs, add them to the website, and add them to Salesforce.

-   cegafaculty\@lists.berkeley.edu **(Note to Evan: need to change
    this)**
-   cegaberkeley\@lists.berkeley.edu if faculty at UC Berkeley **(Note
    to Evan: need to change this)**
-   Impact note

## Resources **(Note to Evan: need to change this to match CPL info)** {#resources_note_to_evan_need_to_change_this_to_match_cpl_info}

**Links to Examples**

-   [Invitation for Affiliate Nominations email
    template](https://berkeley.box.com/s/pm30id7c5bwjp05yo0h7qpfofaflqrqb)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Affiliation criteria in
    Box](https://berkeley.box.com/s/tu14qbhqrq9hxy49dthkzui5qw8kyjjl)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Affiliate Welcome
    Letter](https://berkeley.app.box.com/file/388539165848)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [New Affiliate
    Survey](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1WXc1kHA-es1yNLwc6r7olCHC5d20dxAJPinlJbGO-Eg/edit)