# California Department of Justice {#california_department_of_justice}

## Background

The California Attorney General has the duty to collect, analyze, and
report statistical data, which provide valid measures of crime and the
criminal justice process to government and the citizens of California.
Pursuant to Penal Code 13202, every public agency or bona fide research
body concerned with the prevention or control of crime, the quality of
criminal justice or the custody of correction offenders may request DOJ
data for research purposes. A data request must be submitted to DOJ to
apply for data (see more information
[here](https://oag.ca.gov/research-center)). Typically, DOJ provides
de-identified data for state-level requests; and will provide identified
data if the research has a specific local cohort for which they would
like statewide criminal history.

## CPL Research Partnership {#cpl_research_partnership}

CPL Berkeley has statewide arrest and disposition data for the study
cohorts for two San Francisco projects: Evaluation of the Public Safety
Assessment and the Study of Pre- and Post-Filing Diversion Programs.

CPL Berkeley is also working on two studies using data for the whole
state. Our first study is estimating the proportion of Californians with
criminal records who are eligible to have a record cleared, and
specifically, to clear all convictions on their record. We will compare
differences in eligibility across race/ethnicity, and estimate the
impacts on racial disproportionality in criminal records if eligible
convictions were cleared. Our second project is analyzing whether prison
decarceration policies in California reduced the proportion of racial
minorities that are incarcerated. Or, instead, whether these reforms
made gains in rolling back the size of the incarcerated population,
while leaving racial disproportionalities largely intact.

## Data Holdings {#data_holdings}

Automated Criminal History System data from the California Department of
Justice (CA DOJ) include individual-level arrests, charges, and case
dispositions, with offense and status (infraction, misdemeanor, felony);
sentences; date and county of arrests and dispositions; and the person's
age, gender, and race/ethnicity.

Our sample for the statewide projects include all adults who were
arrested in the state between 2000-2016, including any cases occurring
in California prior and subsequent to this period, through May 2018.

## Data Linking {#data_linking}

We have project-specific approval to link DOJ data to data from the San
Francisco Sheriff\'s Department and District Attorney\'s Office.

## CPL contact person {#cpl_contact_person}

[Alissa Skog](mailto:alissaskog@berkeley.edu)