[CalTime](https://caltime.berkeley.edu/home) is the automated campus
system we use at to log our hours and get paid, whether you are
non-exempt staff (hourly) or exempt staff (salaried). Employees who do
not accrue vacation, such as faculty, do not use CalTime. Leave accrual
is \~10 hours sick and \~8 hours vacation per month + academic/federal
holidays.

-   Only faculty and staff can approve time cards for faculty, staff,
    students in CalTime; students (including GSRs) cannot approve time
    cards, even if they unofficially supervise other students.
-   This section also includes instructions on how to record sick time
    and vacation leave taken in CalTime.

## Notes on working hours, working remotely & reporting vacation/sick leave in CalTime {#notes_on_working_hours_working_remotely_reporting_vacationsick_leave_in_caltime}

CPL staff are expected to work 8 hours per day. Generally working hours
are Monday-Friday 9:00 am-5:30 pm (with 30 min. lunch), or 9:00 am-6:00
pm (with 1 hour lunch), etc.

-   Staff have the option of working remotely one day per week, as
    approved by their supervisor and depending on schedule (i.e. events,
    in-person meetings, etc). Please inform the HR Associate which day
    you plan to work remotely they can add to the CPL Organizational
    Calendar.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Note that if you have not yet accrued enough vacation or sick time
    and wish to take leave, you can speak with your supervisor about
    using leave in advance, tracking it carefully, and recording it in
    CalTime once you've officially accrued the hours -- up to a limit of
    1 week.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   If you are a supervisor, you will need to log into Caltime to
    approve employee time cards. Campus sends reminder emails. Note: To
    approve timecards, click on the Timecards tab next to the Manage my
    Dept tab at the top of the screen, click calculate/save/approve. To
    navigate to your own timecard, click on Workspaces in the top right
    corner, click My Information, enter any leave taken, then click
    calculate/save/approve.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   If you will be out of the office for a doctor appointment or need to
    leave unexpectedly for some reason, please contact the HR Associate
    and your supervisor to let them know (no need to email CPL staff
    list).

**Note for Postdocs:** Per the Postdoc Union contract, vacation and sick
time are banked at the time of hire. It is not earned (accrued), like
staff. Sick days (12 / year): If rehired within any UC within 14
calendar days, the postdoc can petition to have any remaining hours
reinstated. See Sick Leave section of the Union contract for reference.
Personal Time Off (24 days / year): If not used within 12 months, they
are lost. Any remaining PTO at the time of separation is to remain with
the University. See PTO page from the Union contract for reference.

## Timeline

**For non-exempt staff (AKA not salaried):** Every two weeks you need to
record your hours in CalTime (be sure to click Calculate, Save, then
Approve after entering your hours). After receiving Thursday reminder
email, it is due by that Saturday by midnight.

**For exempt staff (AKA salaried):** Once a month you need to record any
vacation or sick leave in CalTime (usually this is due at 1st of the
month).

## For Non-exempt staff: {#for_non_exempt_staff}

**Step One.** Follow the link in the email campus sends every two weeks
to log-on and record your hours (or go to this website and click
ACCESS). Usually you receive an email on Thursday and your time card is
due by that Saturday by midnight.

**Record hours under IN column and OUT column.** Be sure to take into
account that the system automatically includes a one hour lunch break .
For example, if your record IN: 8:00 am and OUT 5:00 PM the system will
record 8 hours worked. For recording regular work hours, it is only
necessary to fill out in the IN and OUT column. After filling out, be
sure the hours add up to correct amount (i.e. 80 hours) at bottom.
Approve time card (check in left hand corner).

**If you miss the CalTime deadline:** If it is Monday morning and your
supervisor hasn\'t approved yet, follow steps above and give your
supervisor a heads up that you completed. If it is past Monday at 5 pm,
email Jacqueline Aldrete Vanegas at jackie_g\@berkeley.edu (current CSS
Payroll Specialist) for CSS Manual Biweekly TimeSheet. 2018 one here.
Manual Monthly (exempt) Timesheet is here. Fill in manual timesheet and
sign at bottom Email to your Supervisor/manager to sign or reply with
approval Email completed manual timesheet (& email approval from your
supervisor if they emailed instead of signing) to current CSS Payroll
Specialist Click here for step by step guides.

## For Exempt Staff: {#for_exempt_staff}

Record any vacation or sick leave in CalTime once/month, usually at the
first of the month; see here for dates and here for step by step guides.
**For supervisors:** Supervisors are responsible for approving mentee
timecards by Monday at 5 pm (Mentees fill out by Saturday at Midnight
and Supervisor approves by Monday at 5 pm). Watch this video for
instructions on how to review and approve employee timecards. How to
Record Sick-time and Vacation Leave taken: You can use partial sick
leave for doctors appointments and record this in timeline. If you have
taken a sick day or need to record a doctors appointment (an hour or few
hourse of sick time) follow the instructions below. Also follow the
instructions below for recording vacation leave taken. Sick Day Under
pay code select \"Sick Leave Taken\" Next to sick leave taken,under
\"Amount\" enter 8.

**Doctors appointment (partial sick-time):** On the far left click the +
next to day you had a partial sick day (doctor\'s appointment).

`Enter how many hours the appointment took under "Amount". `

Below that enter your working hours for day. Here is an example of if I
worked in morning from 8 am to 2 pm and then had doctors appointment
from 2-5 pm on Friday 8/17.

**Vacation Leave:** Under pay code select \"Vacation Leave Taken\"

`Next to vacation leave taken, under "Amount" enter 8. (See example here: if I worked Mon & Tues and took Wed-Friday off for vacation)`

**How to record unpaid leave:** Note if you choose to take unpaid leave,
you would need to work at least 1 day during any given month for UCB to
continue to pay your health insurance premiums. If an employee does not
work at least 1 day in a month, they are responsible for paying out of
pocket for coverage for that month (which is quite expensive!). Discuss
workarounds with the HR Associate if this issue arises.

## For assistance with questions or issues with your paycheck/direct deposit, contact: {#for_assistance_with_questions_or_issues_with_your_paycheckdirect_deposit_contact}

**Jacqueline Aldrete Vanegas** (CSS Payroll Specialist) at
jackie_g\@berkeley.edu or 664-9361

Email the Central Payroll office at: payhelp\@berkeley.edu or 642-1336

## Resources (note to Evan: I am not sure where the missing links for the videos are below) {#resources_note_to_evan_i_am_not_sure_where_the_missing_links_for_the_videos_are_below}

-   [CalTime Website](https://caltime.berkeley.edu/home)
-   [Video on CalTime for Non-Exempt (anytime)
    Employees](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FgUmp2y-PDY&feature=youtu.be)
-   Video on CalTime for Non-Exempt (Realtime) Employees
-   Video on CalTime for Exempt Employees
-   CalTime for Supervisors: how to review and approve employee
    timecards.
-   CalTime for Supervisors: how to set up a schedule
-   [Manual Monthly (exempt) Timesheet (if Caltime deadline is
    missed)](https://sharedservices.berkeley.edu/pdf/CSS-Manual-Monthly-TimeSheet.pdf)