# California Department of Social Services {#california_department_of_social_services}

## Background

Welfare and Institutions Code (WIC) section 10600 designates CDSS as the
single state agency with full power to supervise every phase of the
administration of public social services, except health care services
and medical assistance, for which grants-in-aid are received from the
United States government or made by the state in order to secure full
compliance with the applicable provisions of state and federal laws. The
mission and responsibilities of CDSS are to oversee the appropriate use
of federal grants-in-aid and legislatively budgeted state funds to
serve, aid, and protect needy and vulnerable children and adults in ways
that strengthen and preserve families, encourage personal
responsibility, and foster independence. CDSS serves about 8 million
Californians annually.

While CDSS is the main state entity that is responsible for
administering public social services, most residents in California
contact their county welfare office to apply for and renew benefits.

Responsibilities of CDSS include:

-   Administering CalWORKs, the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families
    (TANF) welfare-to-work program
-   Administering CalFresh, the California implementation of the federal
    Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) (formerly known as
    the Food Stamp program) which provides financial assistance for
    purchasing food for those in poverty in California
-   Evaluating eligibility of applicants for disability-related benefits
    for certain federal and state programs, including Supplemental
    Security Income, Social Security Disability and Medi-Cal
-   Implementing the state's child welfare system (through its Children
    and Family Services Division)
-   Licensing and regulating foster homes, group homes, residential care
    facilities, day care facilities, child care facilities and
    preschools
-   Overseeing the In-Home Supportive Services program
-   Overseeing Refugee Assistance and Services and the Cash Assistance
    Program for Immigrants in California

CDSS is a part of the California Health and Human Services Agency
(CHHSA).

## CPL Research Partnership {#cpl_research_partnership}

**CalFresh enrollment, recertification, and churn:** Many households
eligible for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP),
commonly known as food stamps, do not enroll. One reason that eligible
households might fail to take-up this assistance is because the
procedures required to verify eligibility deter them from remaining
enrolled. Using a new dataset of monthly enrollment data covering all
participants in SNAP in California between 2005 and 2019, matched to
information about benefit amounts and earned income, we document how
program exits coincide with recertification intervals and find that a
large share of households who leave the program are still eligible in
the months before and after their exit. We also identify how changes in
earned income precipitate program enrollment and exit and compare
likelihoods of exit across individual and household characteristics.

The second part of this research agenda will evaluate the impact that
recertification practices have on retention. Since CalFresh is
administered at the county-level, there exists significant variation
across the state in how these recertifications are handled. Some
counties conduct extensive outreach to remind households about
recertification deadlines, others make it easier to complete interviews
over the phone, and others do neither. We would like to evaluate the
effect of these practices on retention not only as an instrument for
uncovering the optimality of recertification schedules, but also to help
counties understand which practice is most effective at keeping families
enrolled. CPL is currently documenting recertification practices through
a survey interview with each county welfare office. These responses will
be used to conduct an evaluation of recertification practices.

**EITC, CARES Act, and other anti-poverty tax credit take-up:** While
the EITC is a crucial part of the social safety net in California, it is
not administered by CDSS\-- instead, it is administered by the FTB. A
substantial share of eligible families are not required to file tax
returns, raising the concern that not all families who are eligible for
the credit receive it. In 2018 and 2019, the CPL partnered with CalFresh
to evaluate the effectiveness of text messages from county welfare
offices to increase the take-up of the EITC. In 2020, we completed the
first phase of our joint-EITC work. [We
found](https://www.capolicylab.org/increasing-take-up-of-the-earned-income-tax-credit/)that
these text messages were ineffective in increasing the take-up rate of
the EITC in California.

In the next phase of our research agenda with the FTB, we will be using
our combined FTB and CDSS dataset to measure the magnitude of the
take-up gap in California of the EITC, starting with CalFresh enrollees.
We are currently working with FTB and CDSS to extend this work to
potential CARES Act recipients in the light of the COVID-19 economic
crisis. We are also working with the FTB and CDSS to scope the
feasibility of using social services administrative data, as well as W-2
and 1099 data issued by employers, to pre-fill a tax return for
low-income non-filers to help increase take-up of the EITC. Finally,
future work will also measure the health and financial impacts of the
EITC on Californians.

**Student supports:** California has long been concerned that low-income
college students are not accessing the full social safety net benefits
available to them. Rules of eligibility for students are highly complex,
and the process of enrolling in such benefits can also be difficult to
navigate. This project aims to identify which students enrolled in
college in California might be eligible for social safety net benefits
and evaluate the effectiveness of efforts to promote take-up among this
population. To identify eligible college students, data would be matched
with student enrollment data from the University of California (UC), the
California Student Aid Commission (CSAC), California State University
(CSU), California Community College Chancellor's Office (CCCCO), and
California Department of Education (CDE), alongside the existing link to
the California Department of Social Services (CDSS) data.

**Home Visiting Statewide Data Hub:** The State of California, through
CDSS and CDPH, has made significant investments in home visiting in
recent years. Currently, different implementing partners operate home
visiting programs throughout the state, utilizing different models of
home visiting. Each partner collects a set of outcome data, but these
data are not currently centralized, making it difficult for CDSS, CDPH,
implementing partners, and researchers to measure statewide outcomes.
CDSS is contracting CPL to centralize data collected by implementing
partners on its secure data hub, clean the data to generate and maintain
a linked dataset, and standardize primary and secondary outcome measures
across datasets. This work will facilitate a statewide view of home
visiting efforts, allowing CDPH and CDSS to draw down on their own data,
and generate a de-identified version of the data for research purposes.

**EATS/SSI Cashout:** The Expanding Access to SNAP (EATS) study takes
advantage of a rare natural experiment opportunity within CalFresh
(known at the federal level as SNAP, the Supplemental Nutrition
Assistance Program). In summer 2019, the State of California will extend
CalFresh benefits to a new, large, and high-risk population for the
first time. Specifically, California will newly extend benefits to
participants in the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program. Ending
the \"Cash Out\" policy will make up to 500,000 older adults newly
eligible for CalFresh benefits, resulting in estimated benefit levels
ranging from \$16 to \$192 per month, depending on factors such as
housing costs and out of pocket medical expenses. Ending Cash Out
provides a unique and time-sensitive opportunity to examine the extent
to which SNAP improves health outcomes and capacity to age in place
among older adults. This project is being led by Hilary Seligman\'s team
at UCSF.

**Health Impacts of the Safety Net:** The goal of this project is to
evaluate the impact of federal and state safety net programs in relation
to acute and chronic health outcomes. The proposed project would merge
vital statistics and hospitalization data from the Office of Statewide
Health Planning and Development (OSHPD) to enrollment data for CDSS
programs (including CalFresh and CalWORKS) in the Medi-Cal Eligibility
Data System (MEDS). This project would also examine the impact of the
Earned Income Tax Credits (EITCs), combined with programs administered
by CDSS, on health outcomes. This project is being done in collaboration
with Rita Hamad at UCSF.

**Child Welfare Service Delivery:** This research seeks to understand
variation in child welfare service delivery. Two domains of service
delivery will be considered: first, process measures of the performance
of caregivers, case managers, and third-parties, and second, the scope
and utilization of services targeting children and youth in family
maintenance, family reunification, permanency placement, and the
independent living program. This research will assess the extent to
which variation in service delivery can be explained by factors,
including, but not limited to, incentive structures and networks.
Finally, this research will investigate the effect of child welfare
services and placements on permanency, safety, and wellbeing, and how
those effects are mediated by factors including, but not limited to,
service delivery and child characteristics.

## Data Holdings {#data_holdings}

**Medi-Cal Eligibility Data System (MEDS) files:** This de-identified
dataset contains basic demographic information for each member of a
household enrolled in Medi-Cal (administered by the California
Department of Health Care Services (DHCS)) and CDSS programs, including
CalFresh and CalWORKS. DHCS makes this file available to CDSS each
quarter. Each file contains about 8 to 12 million observations, one for
each individual enrolled in Medi-Cal. The files contain information
about members' SSNs, serial (or case) number, county of residence, date
of birth, race, language, reason for enrollment in Medi-Cal and in which
other safety net programs s/he is eligible and for what reason (called
\"aid codes\"). MEDS is a longtiduinal database constructed from the
MEDS Monthly Eligibility Files (MMEFs).

**CalFresh and CalWORKs longitudinal databases:** CDSS collects
individual- and household-level data on CalFresh and CalWORKs enrollment
from the above MEDS files. These records are made available in two
longitudinal datasets (one for each program) built and maintained by
CDSS's Fiscal Forecasting and Policy Branch (FFPB). Each dataset (one
for CalFresh and the other for CalWORKs) is comprised of four files:
CACF 1-4 and AFDC 1-4. The first file (CACF1/AFDC1) includes an
indicator for whether the member (identified by an anonymized ID created
by Fiscal Forecasting) was enrolled in the program in each month (as
well as basic demographic information about the member, like their DOB,
race, gender, and language). The second file (CACF2/AFDC2) records the
member's county of residence in each month in which they are enrolled in
the program. The third file (CACF3/AFDC3) records members' serial (or
case) number for each month s/he is enrolled in the program. And the
fourth file (CACF4/AFDC4) records the the member's Aid Code recorded in
MEDS, indicating the reason for which the member is enrolled in the
program.

**CalFresh and CalWORKs Issuance:** CDSS also constructs panel datasets
that record the amount of funds allotted to households' EBT cards. This
panel dataset identifies each case (by its serial number) for both
CalFresh and CalWORKs and the funds allocated to their case each month
in which a household is enrolled.

**Quarterly UI Earnings Data:** Finally, CDSS also receives quarterly
earnings data for all adults enrolled in CalFresh and CalWORKs from the
Employment Development Department (EDD). This earnings information is
provided by employers to EDD as part of EDD's administration of the
Unemployment Insurance system. CDSS receives earnings data for the six
quarters before an individual enrolls in CalFresh, each quarter they're
enrolled and six quarters after they exit the program. CDSS has earnings
data for CalFresh recipients back to Q4 2012 and for CalWORKs recipients
back to 2010.

Note: CDSS recently acquired access to the Statewide Automated Welfare
System, or SAWS. SAWS collates data from three county-level consortia
welfare systems to track eligibility determination, benefit computation,
benefit delivery, case management and information management. SAWS
supports six core programs: CalWORKs, SNAP (known as CalFresh in
California), Medi-Cal, Foster Care, Refugee Assistance, and County
Medical Services. CPL is working with CDSS to get access to this data,
which provides a more detailed enrollment view than MEDS.

## Data Linking {#data_linking}

Currently, the above data is linked to personal income tax return data
from the FTB for 2012-2018. It is also linked to quarterly wage earnings
data from EDD (CDSS routinely purchases this data and matches it to
enrollment data on program participants).

## CPL contact person {#cpl_contact_person}

[Aparna Ramesh](mailto:aparna.ramesh@berkeley.edu)