## Overview

The Commons is a read-only drive that contains materials researchers at
CPL use extensively. These materials are collected and stored in a
centralized location on the Commons server in order to decrease
duplication efforts amongst researchers and have materials easily and
quickly accessible.

## How can I access the Commons? {#how_can_i_access_the_commons}

Commons is now accessible from all current CPL VMs. It should be visible
as another drive (S:\\Commons) in the Window\'s File Explorer the next
time you log in to any of CPL\'s VMs.

If you do not see the Commons, open a command prompt (windows key+r then
\"cmd\") and type "net use S: \\\\192.168.1.15\\Commons" to map the
drive. Note there is a space between \":\" and \"\\\\\" that must be
included.

## What can I find on the Commons? {#what_can_i_find_on_the_commons}

The three main types of resources available on the commons are (i) code,
(ii) data and (iii) training material. Code will contain frequently used
blocks of code in multiple programming languages such as stata, R,
python, for things like creating graphs, setting up projects, merging
datasets etc. The data folder will contain useful datasets such as
census or ACS files, data on education, police and so on. Finally the
training materials folder contains instructive information for using
tools such as PowerBI, etc.

A fourth set of resources for templates will be populated very soon.
This will include CPL branded Word and Powerpoint templates, as well as
code written in State and R for creating figures and tables that align
with CPL\'s style guide and our PI\'s preferences.

Our current data inventory can be found at
[here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1bwL95hlZgfvaVnIguj50GA_7naKEaHZaan2pFFYpMCs/edit?usp=sharing).

## Can I add material to the Commons? {#can_i_add_material_to_the_commons}

Absolutely! The Commons is a read-only VM so if you have ideas on what
else would be useful, please fill out [this
form](https://forms.gle/HoTXPMr9Au5ZQK82A). Whatever you contribute will
help other researchers at CPL who might also benefit from that resource.