## Purpose/Overview

Timeline Steps Campus Resources Purpose/Overview As CPL builds it\'s
network of support, it\'s important to continue to reach out to new
potential donors. We regard a prospect as someone who has shown interest
in the space (or CPL specifically) and has the capacity to make a gift.
Once we\'ve identified a strong prospect, it\'s the Fundraiser\'s
responsibility to move the relationship towards giving.

## Timeline

**November/December and June**

-   send calendar year-end and fiscal year-end solicitation emails to
    larger email list
-   Send personalized solicitations to existing donors

**All year**

-   Schedule meetings with potential donors
-   Host several small prospecting events

## Steps

**1. Identification** We\'re looking to identify people who fit the
profile of a CPL donor. At this stage it makes sense to cast a wide net.
You can identify potential donors through events, board/donor referrals,
campus fundraisers, or through small online gifts.

**2. Qualification** In this stage we want to determine if the potential
donor has the capacity or interest to become a CPL donor. Invite the
potential donor to join you for coffee, lunch, or a phone call (when an
in-person meeting isn\'t possible). These questions are helpful
qualification tools. <https://berkeley.app.box.com/file/311637898580>

**3. Cultivation** In this stage we want to court the donor by bringing
them closer to the organization and allowing them to learn more.
Depending on their interests, you can invite them to meet with a faculty
member, meet the visiting fellows, attend an event, etc. It\'s also
helpful to send them regular updates so we stay on their radar.

**4. Solicitation/Negotiation** At this stage you\'re ready to ask the
donor for a gift based on their interests and capacity. You can research
donor giving capacity in CADS:
<https://hr.berkeley.edu/hr-network/central-guide-managing-hr/campus-business-systems/cads>
This meeting is best done in-person when possible. Present them with
giving options that appeal to their interests. If they say no, try to
negotiate to find a gift size or program they\'re more comfortable with,
or schedule another visit to discuss further.

**5. Stewardship** Effective donor stewardship includes a timely gift
acknowledgement, regular updates on areas of interest throughout the
year, and invitations to events.

**6. Referral/Renewal** A year after the donor\'s first gift, it\'s time
to approach them for a renewal gift either in person or by letter. For
donors who are closer to CPL, this is the time to ask for their help
bringing their networks into our community.

-   Remember to record each step in CADS and Salesforce.

## Campus Resources {#campus_resources}

-   [Ways to Give at UC
    Berkeley](https://give.berkeley.edu/give-your-way.cfm)