Archive of CPL Seminar Topics

## March, 2019 \-- Make-or-Buy? The Provision of Indigent Defense Services in the U.S. {#march_2019____make_or_buy_the_provision_of_indigent_defense_services_in_the_u.s.}

**Yotam Shem-Tov**

U.S. courts provide constitutionally mandated legal services to
low-income defendants via private court-appointed attorneys and public
defenders' organizations. This paper investigates the relative efficacy
of these two modes of indigent defense by comparing outcomes of
co-defendants assigned either a public defender or a private
court-appointed attorney within the same case. Using data from San
Francisco and federal district courts, I find that in multiple defendant
cases public defender assignment is plausibly as good as random. Public
defenders reduce the probability of any prison sentence by 22% and the
length of prison by 10%.

[Make-or-Buy? The Provision of Indigent Defense Services in the
U.S.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1QPCaSRjoIcKyq8R14BFIwrT1wPbI0AWP/view?usp=sharing)

## February, 2019 \-- LA County Homelessness Predictive Analytics: Modeling Results and Risk Factor Analysis {#february_2019____la_county_homelessness_predictive_analytics_modeling_results_and_risk_factor_analysis}

**Brian Blackwell**

The LA County Homelessness Predictive Analytics project utilizes the ELP
database of service data from seven LA County agencies to pursue a range
of research objectives, such as predicting homeless outcomes, predicting
high-cost service utilization, and analyzing risk factors and pathways
to homelessness. This seminar will present some of the highlights of our
January 23rd presentation at the office of the LA County Homelessness
Initiative, including model evaluation metrics for predicting new
homeless spells and first-time homelessness. We will then give an
overview of some methodological aspects that are unique to this project,
such as the use of a relational SQL database to store the ELP data and
the use of machine learning techniques for prediction. We will conclude
by giving a sneak preview of the analysis of risk factors for new
homeless spells.

## January 2019 \-- Can a Simple Nudge Induce Taxpayers to File More Accurate Returns? {#january_2019____can_a_simple_nudge_induce_taxpayers_to_file_more_accurate_returns}

**Patrick Kennedy** and **Aparna Ramesh**

An important role of the Franchise Tax Board (the California state tax
authority) is to help taxpayers report their incomes and their tax
obligations accurately. We report results from an experiment in which
some taxpayers were randomly assigned to receive a treatment \"nudge\"
that aimed to encourage more honest and accurate reporting. The nudge
consisted of a simple reminder at the beginning of the (electronic) tax
form to report returns honestly. Our precisely estimated results
indicate that the nudge did not have an economically significant effect
on income reporting or taxes paid in the 2018 tax season. We discuss
lessons for future research and collaboration between CPL and partner
agencies.

[Can a Simple Nudge Induce Taxpayers to File More Accurate
Returns?](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1OXH6e0uNZ5mMRZ9k5y1M7rVVTNZHSE2a)

## December 2018 \-- Labor Market Concentration and Minimum Wage Employment Effects {#december_2018____labor_market_concentration_and_minimum_wage_employment_effects}

**Emiliano Huet-Vaughn**

We provide empirical evidence consistent with standard theoretical
predictions regarding the way monopsony mediates a minimum wage\'s
employment effect. Using new data on occupational labor market
concentration, we show that more concentrated labor markets experience
more positive employment effects from the minimum wage. Our finding
gives credence to the monopsony model explanation for the small to
non-existent minimum wage-induced job loss documented in prior work.

## November 2018 \-- The Impact of Early Representation: An Analysis of the San Francisco Public Defenders\' Pre-Trial Release Unit {#november_2018____the_impact_of_early_representation_an_analysis_of_the_san_francisco_public_defenders_pre_trial_release_unit}

**Alena Yarmosky**

In October 2017, the San Francisco Public Defender's Office piloted the
Pre-Trial Release Unit (PRU) to enhance access to pre-arraignment legal
representation for indigent arrestees. By conducting a propensity score
analysis of the first 5 months of program, our research team found that
the PRU doubled the likelihood of release at arraignment -- from 14% to
28% -- for arrestees who received arrest-responsive interventions. These
interventions alone are projected to reduce the county jail population
by approximately 11,200 jail bed-days per year -- a key priority for the
City and County of San Francisco. Furthermore, the PRU's efforts to
advocate for the dismissal of parole holds reduced pre-trial
incarceration by 44%, or an average of 9.5 days, among eligible parolees
who were held in custody for violation of their parole orders. We are
currently expanding this analysis to include a full 12 months of program
data and evaluate PRU impact on criminal case outcomes.

[The Impact of Early Representation: An Analysis of the San Francisco
Public Defenders\' Pre-Trial Release
Unit](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1MYZ8cWktl6dc_SXAmntgY7RlKzGVckgo/view?usp=sharing)

## October 2018 \-- LAPD\'s Pursuits {#october_2018____lapds_pursuits}

**Nathan Hess**

Nearly every day in the US someone is killed in a crash resulting from a
police pursuit. California leads the US in deaths resulting from police
chases. In Los Angeles, one in ten pursuits results in an injury to a
bystander, double the state average. Local and national news coverage of
pursuits tends to be driven by high profile cases involving death or
injury to civilians from police pursuits where the unavoidable question
is "was it worth it?" In this presentation, we explore the "benefit"
side of that question by examining 6,000 LAPD pursuits covering 15
years. We also present first-of-its-kind arrest histories for over 4,500
suspects arrested following pursuits.