# California Student Aid Commission {#california_student_aid_commission}

The California Student Aid Commission (CSAC) is the principal state
agency responsible for administering financial aid programs for students
attending public and private universities, colleges, and vocational
colleges in California.

## CPL Research Partnership {#cpl_research_partnership}

Our main research partnership with CSAC is an experiment varying the
language in Cal Grant notification letters to try and increase take up.
For the 2017-18 academic year, we tested three different variants of
letters that CSAC sends to students notifying them of their eligibility
to receive a Cal Grant. One was the original letter, one was a
simplified version of the original letter, and one was a simplified
version containing some a \"belonging\" behavioral nudge. We found that
the modified letters did significantly better at getting students to
register for a WebGrants4Students account (which is one step in the
process to claiming a Cal Grant), but did not impact the rates at which
students eventually received grants.

In 2018-19, we tested a few additional letter variants. One was a pure
simplified version, removing any behavioral nudges. The second was a
version containing \"belonging\" language. The third contained a
\"social norm\" nudge instead. And the fourth contained both
\"belonging\" language and a table with net price estimates for students
at schools they had listed. We are still in the process of analyzing the
results of this second round of letters.

We are also in the process of working with CSAC to start a second
research partnership that will involve merging data from many different
sources, including the California Community Colleges, the Franchise Tax
Board, the California Department of Social Services, and others, the
purpose of which is to identify students who are eligible for food
stamps or other social programs, but who are not currently taking them
up.

## Data Holdings {#data_holdings}

CSAC holds all the information contained in the FAFSA (Free Application
for Federal Student Aid), which includes fairly detailed information on
students and their parents, including income tax, nontaxable income
(including social security income and other welfare benefits), bank and
brokerage information, the schools that students apply to, etc. We have
a lot of this information for the students involved in our experiments
in 2017-18 and 2018-19.

## Data Linking {#data_linking}

The data we received is not de-identified, but we have not yet linked it
to any other datasets.

## CPL contact person {#cpl_contact_person}

[Samantha Fu](mailto:samantha.fu@berkeley.edu)