## Purpose/Overview

Consult this page for guidance on how to complete post-event tasks,
including how to follow-up with event participants, and make sure that
the necessary lessons from the event are properly recorded.

## Checklist

**At the end of every CPL event:** Return all CPL materials (camera,
flip chart(s), laptop(s)). Send thank-you emails, follow-up
instructions/materials, event surveys, etc. to participants, faculty,
and key stakeholders \-- as applicable. Upload contact details of all
participants, and create an event page in Salesforce. Obtain necessary
documentation from participants to process reimbursements. Draft and
upload the \"Rapid Reflection\" template to the CPL Events location on
Box. Ensure that any remaining payments to vendors are processed.

## Timeline and Steps {#timeline_and_steps}

**Before the event:** Draft follow-up email, and consider what resources
need to be shared with participants. On the last day of the event:
Return CPL belongings to the office.

**Within one week after the event:** Send a follow-up email(s) to
relevant participants. Draft Rapid Reflection template with input from
your team members. Expect to spend no more than one hour to draft the
Rapid Reflection. Ask for reimbursement documentation from participants.
Consider drafting a blog post to summarize lessons learned from the
event and steps going forward.

**Within two weeks after the event:** Upload event data (participant
contacts, event page, etc.) to Salesforce. (see Mass Adding New
Contacts/Organizations for contact list upload template which can be
given to the operations associate) Process remaining payments to
vendors.

## Resources

-   [Rapid Reflection
    template](https://berkeley.app.box.com/file/281721563167) **(note to
    Evan: not sure you want to include something like this)**