# California Franchise Tax Board {#california_franchise_tax_board}

## Background

The California Franchise Tax Board collects state personal income tax
and corporate income tax of California. It is a part of the California
Government Operations Agency (GovOps). The FTB is overseen by the Tax
Board, which is comprised of the California State Controller, the
director of the California Department of Finance, and the chair of the
California Board of Equalization. The FTB processes over 17 million tax
returns annually, covering over 24 million primary filers and their
partners (secondary filers).

## CPL Research Partnership {#cpl_research_partnership}

Any proposed project with the FTB must also help the FTB with their tax
administration duties. Below is our current research agenda:

**Take-up of the Earned Income Tax Credit, CARES Act, and other
anti-poverty tax credits:** The state and federal Earned Income Tax
Credits (EITCs) are crucial anti-poverty programs that can provide a
significant financial boost for low-income Californians. However, a
substantial share of eligible families are not required to file tax
returns, raising the concern that not all families who are eligible for
the credit receive it. In 2018 and 2019, the FTB and CPL evaluated the
effectiveness of several different statewide efforts to increase the
take-up of the federal Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) and the state
EITC (CalEITC) in the State of California, three of which are
FTB-specific efforts to reach non-filing populations. As part of this
partnership, CPL and FTB worked closely with other stakeholders,
including the California Department of Social Services (CDSS) and other
tax-related service providers. In 2020, we completed the first phase of
our joint-EITC work. We find that [targeted outreach was
ineffective](https://www.capolicylab.org/increasing-take-up-of-the-earned-income-tax-credit/)
in increasing the take-up rate of the EITC in California.

In the next phase of our research agenda with the FTB, we will be using
our combined FTB and CDSS dataset to measure the magnitude of the
take-up gap in California of the EITC. We are currently working with FTB
and CDSS to extend this work to potential CARES Act recipients in the
light of the COVID-19 economic crisis. Additional take-up work will also
take a closer look at take-up among working college students in
California. We are also working with the FTB and CDSS to scope the
feasibility of using social services administrative data, as well as W-2
and 1099 data issued by employers, to pre-fill a tax return for
low-income non-filers to help increase take-up of the EITC. Finally,
future work will also measure the health and financial impacts of the
EITC on Californians.

**Measuring the Gig Economy:** This research project measures the
prevalence of independent contracting in California. It aims to provide
guidance to the FTB and policymakers on what share of Californians
participate in the gig economy, how reliant they are on independent
contracting income, and whether such income is reported to the FTB. This
project will also look how the use of independent contracting varies
across different points of the income distribution and across the life
cycle, and how it fits into workers\' career trajectories. Finally, this
project will look at whether unemployment is associated with transition
into independent contracting, and whether that work persists or is used
to smooth income fluctuations. Results are anticipated in Summer 2020.
\"Branch\" projects that employ the 1099 and W2 data will continue (e.g.
projects track mass layoffs and the effect on outcomes on independent
contractor and W-2 earnings, understanding firm responses to changes in
1099 reporting guidelines.)

**Honesty and Accuracy Nudge:** CPL and the FTB, in partnership with a
tax preparation software provider, tested the impact on tax filer
behavior of presenting an honesty and accuracy "nudge" at the beginning
of the tax preparation process. The nudge reminded taxpayers of their
responsibility to complete the return accurately and honestly, and was
intended to keep this responsibility in the forefront of their minds
while completing the return.

**Wildfire Mobility:** This project seeks to understand the impact of
wildfires on moving and the labor market behavior of individuals
affected. Our first research question involves the location choice of
individuals following home loss. In particular, do individuals decide to
move to areas where the labor market is more favorable to their
occupation? Understanding moving behavior and location choice following
wildfires can also help to increase efficiency in tax administration and
collection. Our second research question involves the labor supply and
earnings decision after home loss. Are individuals more likely to start
a higher-paying job? Are they more likely to work a second job? Third,
what are the effects within the family network? In particular, do adult
children change their labor supply decision to support their parents
after home loss? Are they more likely to move themselves?

## Data Holdings {#data_holdings}

As part of our partnership with the Franchise Tax Board, the California
Policy Lab has access to de-identified state and federal personal income
tax (PIT) returns from Tax Year 2012 through 2018. This data covers
every Californian who filed taxes within these years\-- upwards of 26
million primary filers and their partners in a given year. These data
are available both at the tax filing unit level (DLN\-- document locator
number) or at the individual level (SSN) level. Until this point, FTB
has only shared data for tax filers. The "header" makes up the backbone
of the FTB's PIT data\-- and includes basic information on all
California filers, filing status, age, and zip code. All other forms
merge into the header.

Generally, the our FTB data includes data on demographics, and can
provide a snapshot of earned income and benefits received during the
year. In terms of demographics, you can find: marital status, age, zip
code, filing method, and dependents. Income and benefit data include:
federal adjusted gross income, earnings, unemployment insurance
benefits, refundable credit information such as the Earned Income Tax
Credit and Child Tax Credits, Schedule C (independent contractor)
revenue and expense information, and W-2 information on wage and
employer industry.

For any state form (e.g. the CA 540), we have data for all California
filers. However, FTB is restricted in sharing federal data (e.g. 1040s)
for paper filers (who make up approximately \~10% of filers).

You can find a detailed overview of the forms we have access to at CPL
[here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-o8Ltvjw3wjiLtSaXl__gtyURf41Hb2OI9cxGlkVcCo/edit).

## Data Linking {#data_linking}

Currently, the FTB data is linked with social service enrollment data
from the California Department of Social Services. The link is
accomplished via a hashed merge. Details on the hashing process can be
found
[here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dq-E1Bb-PcohIa7IhM6tZ9GXLxPK0u6GKJmUKrxGGSs/edit)

There are plans to link FTB data with hospitalization data from OSHPD,
college enrollment data, and credit data from the UCCCP to facilitate
take-up of the EITC among college students, as well as identify the
impacts of the EITC on health and financial well-being. These projects
have not been finalized and are on-going conversations with the FTB and
various data partners.

## CPL contact person {#cpl_contact_person}

[Aparna Ramesh](mailto:aparna.ramesh@berkeley.edu)