## IRB Overview {#irb_overview}

Research conducted by California Policy Lab may be subject to review by
the Institutional Review Board located on each university\'s campus or
the state IRB. Generally, research conducted at CPL-Berkeley is reviewed
by Berkeley\'s [Committee for Protection of Human
Subjects](https://cphs.berkeley.edu/) office, and research conducted at
UCLA is reviewed by UCLA\'s [North General
IRB](http://ora.research.ucla.edu/OHRPP/Pages/IRB.aspx). Some CPL
research projects, however, require review by the [statewide Committee
for the Protection of Human
Subjects](https://oshpd.ca.gov/data-and-reports/data-resources/cphs/#access).

## CPL Research Repository {#cpl_research_repository}

UCLA requires research repositories, the creation of which is one of
CPL\'s central missions, to have IRB approval. Our remote desktop server
Mercury has UCLA IRB approval to be used as such. UCB\'s IRB has agreed
to rely on the UCLA IRB for oversight of our server. **This does not
mean all research occurring on Mercury is exempt from IRB review.** All
research involving human subjects must still be approved by the
appropriate IRB office. Non-research projects or research not using
human subjects do not need approval. When in doubt, your IRB office can
provide a formal determination as to whether your project qualifies as
human subjects research and provide a notice of exemption from IRB
review if warranted.

## Boilerplate Language {#boilerplate_language}

While each IRB protocol is unique, there are several elements likely to
be common to most projects. Below you will find language that has been
used in approved protocols to describe things like handling and
destruction of data, data security features of our server, and how data
will be shared or accessed by team members.

### Data acquisition {#data_acquisition}

-   Explain in detail how or why the data/specimens are available to
    UCLA investigators for research and identify the source and the
    provider of the data/specimens:

ELP: We will be using the Enterprise Linkages Project (ELP) data from
the LA County CEO\'s office. This data has been collected by the County
since 2007 in order to gather data on multi-system service use among
individuals receiving cash assistance from the Department of Public
Social Services. Each month, individual County agencies participating in
the ELP run an encryption code that scrambles the names, birth dates,
and social security numbers of the individuals in their data. The
de-identified data is then uploaded to a secure server for inclusion
into the ELP. The California Policy Lab has a datasharing agreement with
the County CEO providing access to this data for the purposes of this
project.

LAHSA HMIS: The Los Angeles Homelessness Service Authority (LAHSA) is
the regional planning body that coordinates housing and services for
homeless families and individuals in Los Angeles County. As such, it
collects and stores administrative data on its clients in the
Homelessness Management Information System (HMIS). LAHSA\'s HMIS data is
provided to the California Policy Lab for our research repository (IRB
18-000164) through a datasharing agreement executed 1/18/18 between them
and the Regents of UC.

### Data Security - Identifiable Data {#data_security___identifiable_data}

-   Do you have a data security plan for this study?

[CPL/Operations/IT/CPL Data Security Plan -
current](https://drive.google.com/file/d/11-lAA19Wo6HwTw7hLnyy4tdBRR-rDhbC/view?usp=sharing)

-   Will any personally identifiable data be store on portable devices
    (e.g., laptops, PDAs, iPods, external hard drives)?

If you anticipate needing to use portable devices in order to transfer
data from a partner agency to our server, the following language has
been used: *Data may be temporarily stored on an encrypted portable
device in order to transfer from a providing agency onto the California
Policy Lab repository. When encrypted portable devices must be used, the
data will be transferred to our secure repository as soon as possible
following acquisition, and the data will then be immediately and
permanently removed from the encrypted portable device.*

### Section 9.2 Information about Study Data {#section_9.2_information_about_study_data}

On 12/12/2019, UCLA IRB requested the following change to a pending
protocol: *Given that the data will be obtained from the CPL Repository,
please revise your response to section 9.2/item 1.0 to \"None of the
above\".*

### Section 9.5 Data Security Plan {#section_9.5_data_security_plan}

This section is added if you answer affirmatively to 9.2 Item 5,
indicating that the study will have access to personally identifiable or
coded information.

-   After the study is completed, indicate how the data codes and/or
    personal identifying information will be handled.
-   If you indicated that personal identifiers will be maintained for
    future research, provide the following information:
    -   a\) How the information will be securely handled and stored
    -   b\) assure confidentiality, and
    -   c\) who will have access to the identifiers and/or codes.

a\) Data will be kept on the CPL repository, which uses numerous
safeguards against unauthorized access including physical security, a
firewall, two-factor authentication, encryption, and active monitoring
of server activity. Additionally, access to outside networks (i.e. the
Internet) is restricted, and unauthorized removal of data is prevented
by disabling removable media such as USB drives, blocking all outgoing
FTP connections, and disabling copy/paste.

b\) In addition to the safeguards mentioned above, personal identifiers
or codes linking to personal identifiers that further protected against
disclosure by continued adherence to the \"minimum necessary\" access
principle. Anyone no longer requiring access to those identifiers or
codes will have their access removed. Access logs are maintained by our
IT manager, and account audits are conducted quarterly to maintain
minimum necessary access across all projects.

c\) Access to those codes or identifiers will only be granted to CPL
staff or affiliate researchers upon approval of a new research project
by the agency or agencies who provided the data and the IRB as
appropriate.

### Risks

-   Indicate the potential risks/discomforts, if any, associated with
    each intervention or research procedure. Additionally discuss any
    measures that will be taken to minimize risks.

For projects using PII in some manner: *The largest risk is that a data
breach occurs resulting in a loss of confidentiality. We have several
protections in place to prevent such an occurrence, including but not
limited to: server is accessible only via virtual private network;
dual-factor authentication; intrusion protection software is in use;
identifiable data is encrypted and kept separate from other data; remote
desktop server is on non-routable subnet so users can not access the
internet, inbound or outbound. The probability of harm is thus
exceedingly small, although its severity, if identifiable information
were disclosed, is potentially substantial and irreversible (for
example, identity theft).*

-   Risk / benefit analysis: Indicate how the risks to participants are
    reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits, if any, to
    participants and the importance of the knowledge that may be
    reasonably expected to result from the study.

*We believe the likelihood of a breach to be extremely low given our
practices, procedures, and the technological safeguards we have in
place. In contrast, the benefits of research using this data are\...*

### Request to Wave Informed Consent for Study {#request_to_wave_informed_consent_for_study}

-   If you indicated that the study design does not allow the
    possibility of obtaining consent, or that requiring consent may
    introduce systematic bias or checked \"other\", provide any
    information that may assist the IRB to understand why obtaining
    consent would not be feasible.

For studies involving use of large amounts of previously collected
administrative data: *The research study will involve the use of
previously collected administrative data for **X number of**
individuals. It would not be feasible to obtain consent from a research
population of this size.*

For studies involving mobile populations: *This study involves
populations that are highly mobile. Limiting our research to only the
subset of individuals for we are able to locate could bias our results.*

For studies using retrospective data: *This study will use repository
data from the past, for which obtaining consent would be in some cases
impossible.*

For a request to waive both parental permission and assent: *Students in
**X school district** are often highly mobile, and contact information
quickly becomes out of date. Limiting our research to only the subset of
individuals for we are able to locate could bias our results.*

## FAQ

\[list of FAQ\]

More questions? Contact April Chang (april\@cpl.ucla.edu)