# Los Angeles Homeless Services Authority {#los_angeles_homeless_services_authority}

## Background

The **Los Angeles Homeless Services Authority** coordinates programs and
services for County residents who are experiencing housing insecurity.

\"In December of 1993, the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors and
the Los Angeles mayor and City Council created the Los Angeles Homeless
Services Authority (LAHSA) as an independent, joint powers authority.
LAHSA is the lead agency in the Los Angeles Continuum of Care, which is
the regional planning body that coordinates housing and services for
homeless families and individuals in Los Angeles County. LAHSA
coordinates and manages over \$300 million annually in federal, state,
county, and city funds for programs that provide shelter, housing, and
services to people experiencing homelessness.\" \-- [Overview of
LAHSA](https://www.lahsa.org/about)

## CPL Research Partnership {#cpl_research_partnership}

CPL\'s partnership with LAHSA is composed of diverse research and data
science activities centered on homelessness. Through the course of the
partnership, CPL and LAHSA have explored or are exploring:

-   the application of predictive models to homelessness
-   the evaluation of anti-homelessness programs (e.g., Measure-H funded
    prevention)
-   questions of racial equity and equity more generally in the homeless
    service system
-   ad hoc questions around homelessness in LA, service administration,
    and data quality

## Data Holdings {#data_holdings}

CPL has obtained [HMIS](/HMIS "wikilink") (Homeless Management
Information System) data from LAHSA, as well as associated housing needs
assessments.

LAHSA manages some portion of LA\'s housing inventory for homeless
clients in a system called Resource Management System (RMS). LAHSA
matches clients to housing using this system.

## Data Linking {#data_linking}

HMIS data are linked to the [Enterprise Linkages
Project](/ELP "wikilink") for use in specific projects approved by the
[LA County CEO](/LA_County_CEO "wikilink"). Additionally, a distinct
version of the HMIS is a component of the LA County
[Infohub](/LA_County_CEO#Infohub "wikilink").