## Los Angeles Police Department {#los_angeles_police_department}

The Los Angeles Police Department is the third largest police department
in the country, behind Chicago and New York City. The department has
nearly 10,000 sworn officers and has jurisdiction over almost 500 square
miles where 4 million people reside.

## CPL Research Partnership {#cpl_research_partnership}

The California Policy Lab has a master datasharing agreement with LAPD
allowing broad access to their data for approved research and technical
assistance projects. The LAPD under Chief Beck was interested in
projects relating to risk management issues (e.g. the pursuit policy),
public sentiment monitoring and community relations, knowledge transfer
between Police Departments, employee wellness and burnout. The LAPD
under Chief Moore is prioritizing research partnerships exploring the
role of the police in homelessness, responding to demand reduction in
face of austerity measures after COVID, identifying efficiencies in
operations due to potentially shrinking budgets, technology solutions to
lessen the burden on front line officers, and suicide prevention for
officers.

**LAPD PSR Wellness project:** In 2019, CPL worked with the LAPD
Communications Division and AFSCME Local 3090, the union representing
PSRs, to understand and reduce burnout of police service representatives
(PSRs) within the LAPD. The project consisted of:

-   An eight-week email intervention aimed at reducing PSR burnout by
    increasing social connectedness
-   Three surveys of PSRs to measure levels of burnout
-   An analysis of administrative data records to understand the
    interplay of absences, hours worked, performance on calls with
    burnout

The intervention can be found
[here](https://sites.google.com/s/1bZBIWRp2-cip3rrtYMEXqhrfWyDL8zip/p/1GhagLPggwMc7PuEUb4tSEBclrQ23h9rW/edit)

**Police Pursuit Analysis:** In 2018, LAPD command staff requested
CPL\'s help analyzing its pursuit data in order to identify
opportunities to revise their pursuit policy. This project is the first
of its kind to also present demographic information and arrest history
analysis of apprehended drivers. Generating arrest histories required
the use of a machine learning name matching algorithm in order to create
a person-level identifier in the arrest data, as LAPD\'s arrest database
lacked this information at the time of the analysis.

## Data Holdings {#data_holdings}

**Arrests:** Identified arrest data dating back to 2000.

**Calls for Service:** CPL has 911 call log data for the city of LA from
2015 through early 2020. The data detail the length of the call, the
time to dispatch, the priority of the call, geography of the call, and
the nature of the incident. Note: In October 2019, a change in the
system used to record CFS data. This change makes it difficult to
compare time to dispatch for data pre October 2019, however, the
recording of time prior to October 2019 is fairly consistent. A data
dictionary for the CFS data can be found
[here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1d8C7ukapsJ7H4AG19y_Ywh8rnaWd4Tsp98wXG-HYQ0A/edit#gid=1028122672)

**Commendation System:** Contains information on officer commendations.

**Comprehensive Human Resource Information System (CHRIS):** CHRIS
system captures area assignment and rank history for officers as well as
officer demographic information.

**Consolidated Crime Analysis Database (CCAD):** Contains tables with
additional information on crime and arrests beyond what is captured in
the separate crime and arrest tables. Utility to researchers depends on
the type of question being asked.

**Crimes:** Contains victim demographics but no identifiers.

**Payroll, Overtime, and Deployment Planning Service data
(Communications Division only):** As part of the Police Service
Representatives (PSR) burnout project, CPL has data on planned shifts,
leave taken, and overtime worked for PSRs in the LAPD in 2019. DPS data
(planned shift data) is available from 2015-2019, A detailed summary of
the data available, and the cleaning rules used to process the data, can
be found
[here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lVqyD--QuJw65bOdkCfJzGnUPuyhoOJhOs7tcrR-WyM/edit).
A data dictionary can be found
[here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1d8C7ukapsJ7H4AG19y_Ywh8rnaWd4Tsp98wXG-HYQ0A/edit#gid=2051298088)

**Pursuits:** Contains 20,000 pursuit records dating back to 1980,
though functional data range does not begin until 2003 due to
missingness in key variables. Data is at the pursuit level and does not
contain any information about the suspect. Fields include date, time,
location, vehicle description, distance, speed, reason for pursuit,
outcome (escape, arrest, discontinue), injuries, deaths, collisions, and
arrest charge (if any).

**Risk Management Information System (RMIS):** Contains information on
the number of uses of force, complaints and lawsuits, for each officer.
Developed to help supervisors and managers prevent risk management
behavior issues from arising in officers under their supervision.

**Use of Force:** Separated into incidents where \"categorical\" versus
\"non-categorical\" (lethal vs non-lethal) force was used.
\"Categorical\" force does not imply the suspect died, only that
potentially lethal force was used.

## Data Linking {#data_linking}

Pursuit and arrest data have been linked, arrest data has been
deduplicated to create person-level identifier. No links to external
data have been approved by LAPD or attempted by CPL.

## CPL contact person {#cpl_contact_person}

[General Questions: Nathan Hess](mailto:nathanhess@ucla.edu)

[PSR Burnout Project: Aparna Ramesh](mailto:aparna.ramesh@berkeley.edu)