## Overview

Mentorship is the meaningful practice of intentionally investing in
another person to help them reach their potential. It is a partnership
between two people and emphasizes a mutuality of learning. At CPL, we
try to cultivate a culture of mentorship by taking responsibility for
the professional development of our colleagues and by providing ongoing
coaching and feedback. Active mentorship is an expectation (and
competency) integrated into all management-level positions at CPL.
Anyone who supervisors someone else is categorized as a \"mentor.\" At
the same time, mentorship does not necessarily have to be a top-down
manager-associate dyad: anyone can be a mentor. Often, associates have
deep expertise in critical functional areas (e.g. event management,
research competitions, subject-matter, etc.) and can provide targeted
guidance and professional development advice. Note that mentors beyond
defined supervisory roles are not assigned, so it is encouraged that all
CPL staff members proactively seek mutually beneficial mentor
relationships.

## Mentoring Ideas {#mentoring_ideas}

**There are many ways mentorship plays out at CPL, some more formal than
others. Progress can be reviewed at periodic mentor-mentee check-ins,
performance reviews, and during weekly updates (or other venues). Here
are a few examples of how mentorship can (and should) be integrated into
daily workflows:**

-   Establish \"gentle accountability\" for your mentorship agreement.
    Define what each party hopes to get out of the partnership.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Coffee buddies: organize informal cross-team mentorship
    opportunities. Grab periodic coffee with someone from another team
    and talk through goals, barriers, and development ideas.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Have a candid conversation about strengths and capacities. Tapping
    untapped strengths represents new directions, deeper fulfillment,
    and greater fruitfulness. Identify opportunities for professional
    development and hold each other accountable.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Develop written plans for growth and skills development, including
    opportunities for informal development (like participating in high
    level meetings, giving presentations, etc).

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Ensure that your (and your mentee\'s) portfolio of work has an
    adequate mix of guided/collaborative work and independent problem
    solving. If this doesn\'t exist, brainstorm ways to make it happen.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   When appropriate, try to keep it high-level. A model mentor doesn't
    just give answers. Rather than hashing out every detail, a 50,000
    foot view is often more helpful. This approach can provide much
    needed perspective while allowing the mentee to figure out their own
    path.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Affirm each other\'s strengths! Recognition is motivating.
    Acknowledge your mentee\'s strengths and think of ways to build on
    them to improve work outputs and \"marketability,\" CPL, and the
    world!

## Resources

-   [UC Berkeley Manager and Supervisor
    Development](https://hr.berkeley.edu/development/manager-supervisor)
-   [5 Secrets to Being a Great Mentor---From Someone Mentored by the
    Best](http://time.com/54568/5-secrets-to-being-a-great-mentor-from-someone-mentored-by-the-best/)