## Purpose/Overview

Post-event media includes event pages, photos, videos, blog posts, and
articles. Effective use of all of these components is an integral part
of maximizing the value of the event. Checklist Ensure that all speakers
have signed and returned the media release form and that photography
consent signs were posted Upload photos from the event to CPL\'s Google
Drive account and confirm that the credits are included Upload videos to
CPL\'s Youtube channel **(note to Evan: CPL doesn\'t have a YouTube
channel so this needs to change. However, there are a few videos on
YouTube about CPL.)** and confirm that titles/descriptions are accurate
Arrange for post-event blog posts to be drafted and published on the CPL
blog Follow up with journalists and bloggers to share photos, videos,
and blog posts, then disseminate the event pieces accordingly Update
event page with post-event media resources

## Timeline

**Week 1:** Upload photos Follow up with videographer Follow up with
journalists/bloggers

**Week 2-3:** Upload videos Publish CPL blog post Disseminate
journalist/blogger pieces Update event page with post-event media

## Steps

**Uploading event photos:** Ensure that all speakers have signed and
returned the media release form and that photography consent signs were
posted. Copy photos from CPL camera onto computer, select all, rename,
\"\[EventTitle\]_\[Credit\]_\[Year\],\" Upload to CPL\'s SPA account,
grouping photos into an album titled, \"Event: \[EventTitle\]
\[Year\].\"

**Uploading YouTube videos:** Ensure that all speakers have signed and
returned the media release form and that photography consent signs were
posted. Upload videos (or instruct videographer to do so) via CPL\'s
YouTube account, titling videos, \"\[TalkTitle\] - \[SpeakerName\]
(\[EventTitle\] \[Year\]).\" Copy and paste content about the speaker,
talk, and event into the video description. Create a playlist for the
event.

**Adding videos to CPL event page:** Ensure that all speakers have
signed and returned the media release form and that photography consent
signs were posted. Create a resource on CPL website, embed video, copy
and paste description below video. Check off relevant countries, themes,
sectors, and initiatives. Screenshot video, add image with credit &
caption as featured image. Go to event page and add videos as resources.

**Publishing Post-Event Blog Posts:** Work with planning team and
communications associate to identify blog ideas in advance of event
(paper wrap-up, op-ed, etc.), using CPL Blog Guidelines and CPl Blog
wiki. Draft initial wire-frame for post in anticipation of event and
share with team. Complete first draft within a week after the event has
passed (offer to ghost-write wherever possible when working with writers
external to CPL). Have program manager review post, then upload to
medium (see CPl Blog wiki). Advertise the blog post on Twitter,
Facebook, the website, and Impact Note.

**Arranging and Supporting External Articles:** Reach out to local media
contacts directly using the Salesforce database prior to the event,
offering to support their work, should they need comments from the
center or speakers. Maintain a line of communication with the attending
journalists leading up to and during the event. Follow up with
journalists that attended the event with 1-2 days of event, offering
support, should they need it. Advertise the eventual article on Twitter,
Facebook, the website, and Impact Note.

## Resources

-   [Media Release
    Form](https://www.ets.berkeley.edu/sites/default/files/general/ucb_media-release_ets_events_0.pdf)
-   [Photography Consent
    Signs](https://berkeley.box.com/s/c3oo3fa1vrxdng9eye2y5uyvi6nelpyz)
-   [CEGA Blog
    Wiki](https://wikihub.berkeley.edu/display/CEGA/CEGA+Blog) **(note
    to Evan: not sure you want to include this)**
-   [CEGA Blog
    Guidelines](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rghcnOXG3wjy5EAa_pKlnaQ9xcOCzINZR-tjdl4koLg/edit#heading=h.xibdjtosuymy)
    **(note to Evan: not sure you want to include this)**