# San Francisco District Attorney {#san_francisco_district_attorney}

## Background

The San Francisco District Attorney is responsible for investigating and
prosecuting crime in the county. The current DA, Chesa Boudin, and his
predecessor, George Gascon, have championed alternatives to traditional
prosecution, including community-based courts and diversion programs for
primary caregivers, people with behavioral health challenges, and other
special populations. The DA\'s Office has also co-sponsored statewide
sentencing reform, including Proposition 47 which reclassified certain
low-level drug and property crimes from potential felonies to
misdemeanors.

## CPL Research Partnership {#cpl_research_partnership}

**Study of Pre- and Post-Filing Diversion Programs**: CPL completed the
first comprehensive analysis of San Francisco's diversion programs,
summarizing referral, acceptance, and graduation rates and other key
trends in an interactive dashboard. Now in the second phase of the
study, CPL is evaluating the effect of referral to the Community Justice
Center (CJC) and felony Collaborative Courts on case outcomes and
subsequent criminal justice contact.

**Alternatives to Prosecution for Juveniles**: Make It Right is a
Restorative Community Conferencing program in San Francisco that offers
an alternative to traditional criminal processes for youth who commit
mid-level offenses. The SFDA used random assignment to the program as an
equitable way to determine who receives program services in a
non-discretionary manner and to allow a rigorous evaluation of the
program's effectiveness. CPL is assessing whether the restorative
justice model yields better outcomes, as defined by subsequent juvenile
justice system contact, than traditional prosecution. San Francisco
Juvenile Probation Department is also partnering on this project.

\"Understanding Alternatives to Incarceration for Multi-Systems High
Utilizers\": CPL will complete the first linkage of individual-level
criminal justice, public health, substance use treatment, and shelter
usage data in San Francisco. The first stage of this analysis is to
measure the size and characteristics of frequent utilizers of government
services, prototypical service use pattern, and any changes over time or
difference across groups. We will use the empirical results to
understand the cycles of health service utilization, homelessness,
police contact, and incarceration; identify the complex factors that
drive their systems involvement; and model how policy changes (such as
jail discharge planning or diversion to treatment programs) can impact
outcomes. The Sheriff and Department of Public Health are also partners
on this project.

**Automatic Record Clearance and the Added Benefit of Notification**:
While automatic record clearance is becoming more common, few policies
include a provision to notify affected individuals. CPL is exploring the
*possibility* of using San Francisco's automatic clearance of marijuana
offenses to test whether there is an effect of automatic clearance on
employment and income and whether notifying individuals has an added
effect.

**Justice Dashboard**: The San Francisco Justice Dashboard is the first
interactive public resource to track subsequent justice contact rates
and assess progress towards reducing racial disparities in the justice
system. CPL is redesigning the 2020 Dashboard to incorporate a
desistance framework, including a look at time to new contact and the
severity of subsequent offense. View the dashboard
[here](https://sfdistrictattorney.org/justice-dashboard-display).

**Technical Assistance to the Safety & Justice Challenge**: CPL Berkeley
provides San Francisco with a monthly report of the jail population,
including number of new bookings and releases, disaggregated by
race/ethnicity. This project supports San Francisco\'s efforts to reduce
its jail population by 16% and close the seismically unfit jail in the
Hall of Justice. This work is supported by the MacArthur Foundation\'s
Safety and Justice Challenge. For more information about San
Francisco\'s strategies, see [SJC Fact
Sheet](http://www.safetyandjusticechallenge.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/San-Francisco-Safety-Justice-Challenge-Fact-Sheet.pdf).

## Data Holdings {#data_holdings}

We have all arrest, filing and disposition data since January 1, 2008
and receive updates on a quarterly basis. Original data codebooks are
[here](https://drive.google.com/open?id=11y0U5lHI1LLdDa2lYi20R9-oD935yauh).

Key variables include:

-   Arrest charge(s)
-   Filed charge(s), if the case is filed
-   Case disposition (dismissal, conviction, etc.)
-   Demographics (however, it is best practice to use the Sheriff\'s
    data for race/ethnicity and sex)

## Data Linking {#data_linking}

The data has been linked to:

-   Jail data from the **San Francisco Sheriff\'s Department**
-   Risk assessment scores and decisions from the **San Francisco
    Pretrial Diversion Project**
-   Statewide arrest and disposition records from **California
    Department of Justice\'s** Automatic Criminal History System

We are in the process of being linked to the **San Francisco Department
of Public Heath\'s** Coordinated Case Management System (CCMS), which
includes data on emergency medical, behavioral health, and shelter
usage, as well as diagnoses.

## CPL contact person {#cpl_contact_person}

[Alissa Skog](mailto:alissaskog@berkeley.edu) [Elsa
Augustine](mailto:eaugustine@berkeley.edu)