Skip to end of metadata Created by Corey Murray, last modified on Dec
06, 2018 Go to start of metadata Purpose/Overview Steps

Purpose/Overview Donor stewardship is the process that occurs once a
donor has given. Stewardship involves managing gifts as donors intended,
updating donors on the process and impacts of their gifts, and easing
donors into the next cultivation process by keeping them involved.
Ultimately, stewardship is about meeting a donor\'s gift intentions and
expectations to create a long-term, mutually-beneficial relationship.

Steps The donor makes a gift. Stewardship begins when a donor makes a
gift. Who the donor is and how much they give should determine your
stewardship strategy. For example, a major donor who frequently gives
will require different stewardship techniques than a surprising
mid-level donor with no clear ties to CEGA. In this early stage, add new
donors to Salesforce or update their current profile based upon the
gift\'s size and timing.

Thank the Donor for their Gift. Once the donor gives, the first thing
you should do is them them for their generosity. It\'s important that
you thank donors before moving forward. Depending on the type of gift, a
personal email or handwritten card could also be a nice touch.

Confirm the Donor\'s Intentions and Expectations. If you\'ve been
properly cultivating the donor, you should have an understanding of the
donor\'s expectations before you solicit a gift. This step, however, is
a chance to confirm your donor\'s intentions and expectations with their
gift or find out about the motivations of a new donor that you haven\'t
been cultivating.

Report the Gift\'s Impact to the Donor. For larger gifts, reporting on
the donor\'s impact can be vital to fulfilling their expectations. You
could send something very specific or, if they made a general gift, send
something like the Annual Report to show Center impacts.

Begin Cultivation Process. Once you\'ve properly stewarded a donor, they
should feel appreciated and should understand how their gift makes a
different. Now you can begin cultivating them for their next gift. A
strong stewardship process should help retain donors and grow their
giving levels. Remember that stewardship takes many months, and
cultivation should only begin once a donors has been thoroughly thanked,
recognized, and updated.