## CPL UCLA Photo Gallery {#cpl_ucla_photo_gallery}

As part of CPL UCLA\'s efforts to improve our office space at CCPR, we
held a photo contest in the summer of 2019. All CPL and CCPR residents
were invited to submit photos they had taken that they felt fit the
theme of \"Joy and Inspiration.\" The thirty submissions were
anonymously added to a web gallery and the link to vote shared with all
CCPR residents.

The top vote getting submissions, and the artist bios are as follows.

[400px](/File:Tommy.jpg "wikilink")

**Tomás Guanziroli**

Carioca

***Lively Yosemite,*** 2019

Huawei Mate SE

The portrait displays the encounter between the elephantine mountains
that levy darkness over the valley and the aquiver power of water that
brings life to the same. We are not innocent spectators sheltering in
the earthy shade, but curious voyagers crossing the valley, bounded by
nature, rushed by time.

Tomás is PhD candidate in Economics. While he studies Labor Economics,
his family still thinks he is a banker. So, he is a banker. Tomás joined
CCPR as an intern for CPL during the summer of 2018.

[400px](/File:Kelle.jpeg "wikilink")

**Kelle Taylor**

Manhattan Beach, California

***Sakyo-Ku, Kyoto,*** 2018

iPhone 7

While touring the grounds of the Chion-in Temple, home of the largest
bell in Japan (weighing 75 tons) I stumbled upon a small gate leading
into this tranquil and spectacular garden. There was no one else in the
area; I felt as if I had found a hidden gem.

Kelle is a UCLA alum and has worked at the University for 11 years. She
joined CPL in September, 2017, and manages the lab\'s operations
including HR, purchasing, scheduling, reimbursements, and travel.

[400px](/File:sunset.jpg "wikilink")

**Nino Migineishvili**

Tblisi, Georgia

***Lagom,*** 2019

iPhone 7

The gentle breeze sings

the sun a sweet lullaby

and I surrender.

Nino is a recent UCLA graduate with a degree in Mathematics. She joined
CPL in the fall of 2018 while still a student and has happily been
working here since. She works on the homelessness prediction project.

[400px](/File:Wishes.jpg "wikilink")

**Nick Carollo**

Kemmerer, Wyoming

***Lanterns,*** 2019

iPhone 7

Taken in the old quarter of Hội An, a former trading port and UNESCO
World Heritage Site in central Vietnam. Since the 16th century, Chinese,
Japanese, and European merchants have left their mark on the unique
architecture of this city. By night, the streets are lit by hundreds of
colorful lanterns like these.

Nick is a a PhD student in the economics department and joined CCPR in
2017, where he also spent a year as a research assistant for the
California Policy Lab. His research focuses on applied labor economics,
in particular, the effect of state credentialing of professions on wages
and employment.

[300px](/File:Hambre.JPG "wikilink")

**Nathan Hess**

Pennsylvania

***Tenemos Hambre,*** 2009

Nikon D40

We assembled at City Hall; the gutter punks and the teeth pullers and
the gentrificants and their soon to be displaced tenants. As one we rode
through neighborhoods hung with storefront signs in English then
Chinese, Spanish then Polish. Drinking beer in the middle of Milwaukee
Avenue as the sun slid behind the low buildings to the west. Our bikes
raised in the ecstasy and anonymity of youth at the water's edge, and
then, having nothing else to drink, silently pedaled home.

Nathan joined the California Policy Lab in August, 2017 and works on
homelessness and criminal justice research projects.

## Nathan\'s Poster Gallery {#nathans_poster_gallery}

I\'ve been an avid concert goer for over twenty years. For the first
decade or so my favorite souvenir was a t-shirt or two, but once I moved
to Chicago in 2007 I started buying hand-screened concert posters
instead. When I moved to Los Angeles I brought a bunch of posters with
me to decorate my office with, and have steadily added to the collection
whenever the opportunity arises. Here\'s a running list of the bands
I\'ve displayed, as well as links to their music and some random
commentary to go with.

### On Display {#on_display}

-   [Russian
    Circles](https://open.spotify.com/artist/0AZ3VR0YbFcS0Kgei7L2QF) &
    [FACS](https://open.spotify.com/album/4RU22VJviUatDzor7futXp) -
    Russian Circles are from my neighborhood back in Chicago and
    probably my favorite "instru-metal" band, though they've gotten much
    more melodic with each album. Everything they've put out is great,
    in particular two of their most recent albums \"Guidance\" and
    \"Memorial.\" Don\'t know much about FACS, other than they are from
    Chicago and were awesome live. Drummer is a beast.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [This Will Destroy
    You](https://open.spotify.com/artist/0MG4LXIw7n4x0wjDc6WYXk) -- One
    of the best bands that came out of the [Explosions in the
    Sky](https://open.spotify.com/artist/1uQWmt1OhuHGRKmZ2ZcL6p) milieu
    in the mid-aughts. Young Mountain and S/T are my favorites, they put
    out two albums in 2018 (New Others Part One and Two) that are both
    very good.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [The Murder City
    Devils](https://open.spotify.com/artist/0rIOnBirvFkIILkTCGc7N0) -
    The name makes them sound quite a bit more menacing than the music
    actually is. They\'d probably describe themselves as simply a
    rock\'n\'roll band. MCD released a couple great albums in the late
    90s and early aughts on Sub Pop Records, and were one of the first
    bands in the punk/hardcore scene to use an organ player. That became
    their signature sound, heard on tracks like [Rum to
    Whisky](https://open.spotify.com/track/6nXWPgA660ekcN92PI9XbY) and
    [18 Wheels](https://open.spotify.com/track/4FFMzzfpfKUPMaY4qEN5z5).
    Their guitarist would go on to join [Modest
    Mouse](https://open.spotify.com/artist/1yAwtBaoHLEDWAnWR87hBT).

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Mastodon](https://open.spotify.com/artist/1Dvfqq39HxvCJ3GvfeIFuT),
    [Coheed and
    Cambria](https://open.spotify.com/artist/3utxjLheHaVEd9bPjQRsy8), &
    [Every Time i
    Die](https://open.spotify.com/artist/0o7WWONtleH6PWLn5GIoCM) -
    Mastodon put out one of my favorite albums of all time in 2009,
    [Crack the
    Skye](https://open.spotify.com/album/2W2nqEKXWBorbq5yvm3jZg) which
    is a concept album involving astral projection, Rasputin, Russian
    czars, and the afterlife. It is a prog-metal masterpiece, and is
    still their best album to date. The recently won a Grammy for their
    album the Emperor of the Sand.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Tycho](https://open.spotify.com/artist/5oOhM2DFWab8XhSdQiITry) --
    Super chill instrumental/electronic music from a California-born
    visual artist. Absolutely love having Awake or Epoch on no matter
    what I'm doing: cooking, cleaning, reading, running, coding,
    entertaining...just goes with everything.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Hop
    Along](https://open.spotify.com/artist/3yYUV3hkJit05YIUEODqgp) -
    [Bark Your Head Off,
    Dog](https://open.spotify.com/album/7taAuoHvZ4LJzEaB0OzuP3) was one
    of my favorite albums of 2018, if **the** favorite. Their singer
    Frances has a very distinctive and powerful voice, the music makes
    you wanna dance, and the songs sound fresh no mattter how many times
    you listen to the album.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [True Widow](https://open.spotify.com/search/true%20widow) - One of
    the first \"stonergaze\" bands in the punk and hardcore scene, which
    leans heavily on the shoegaze sound of bands like My Bloody
    Valentine and Jesus and Mary Chain. Features male and female vocals.
    I really liked their first self-titled album but then didn\'t pay
    much attention to anything they did afterwards. When I saw they were
    playing \[www.residentdtla.com Resident\[ in downtown LA, I had to
    go to the show. Great venue, never been anywhere like it.

### Archived

-   [Godspeed You Black
    Emperor](https://open.spotify.com/artist/4svpOyfmQKuWpHLjgy4cdK) -
    This was always a band I wanted to like more than I did, they\'ve
    got a huge cult following and are amazing musicians, but I need to
    be in the right mood for them. Their latest album Luciferian Towers
    is excellent. They also have a ton of associated side projects,
    notably [Thee Silver Mt
    Zion](https://open.spotify.com/artist/0bRpSBtMd3stO4J6TWclMb). My
    introduction to them was the album Kollaps Tradixionales which is
    still my favorite. Their lead singer
    [Efrim](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Efrim_Menuck) is an amazing
    weirdo. Also probably brilliant. I saw GY!BE outdoors at [Pappy and
    Harriets](http://www.pappyandharriets.com) which is an incredible
    venue outside of Palm Springs. Maybe one of my favorite concert
    spots, especially if the show is outdoors.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Grails](https://open.spotify.com/artist/3VdjlG06JkVAnZ19TR7ZHZ) --
    Not actually sure how I got turned onto these guys, guessing it was
    when they released their album *Deep Politics* which got pretty
    universal acclaim. That album is excellent, in particular the track
    ["Almost Grew My
    Hair"](https://open.spotify.com/track/0jFIu0f4u1IsIpqZYVBLw6) which
    I usually have to listen to two or three times in a row. Grails
    tours as a band but is really just the work of two main members who
    are incredibly talented multi-instrumentalists. Their latest album
    *Chalice Hymnal* is really good, but it sort of feels different from
    *Deep Politics* and their earlier work in that it seems more
    appropriate to describe the tracks as "compositions" rather than
    "songs." If you like the more "compositional" stuff, you'd likely
    enjoy their side project [Lilacs &
    Champagne](https://open.spotify.com/artist/3RLmwfhrVzVSdo82pagPjd)
    as well.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Interpol](https://open.spotify.com/artist/3WaJSfKnzc65VDgmj2zU8B)
    -- Not a band I listen to all that often, just went to see them at
    Hollywood Bowl in the fall of 2018 because seeing pretty much anyone
    there is awesome. Their album *Antics* is great though, as is *Turn
    on the Bright Lights.* TOTB might be one of the few albums I've ever
    heard that makes me think "man I bet it would have been cool to be
    in your early 20s and living in NYC."

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Russian
    Circles](https://open.spotify.com/artist/0AZ3VR0YbFcS0Kgei7L2QF) &
    [Chelsea
    Wolfe](https://open.spotify.com/artist/6ZK2nrW8aCTg8Bid7I7N10) -
    Russian Circles are from my neighborhood back in Chicago and
    probably my favorite "instru-metal" band, though they've gotten much
    more melodic with each album. Everything they've put out is great,
    in particular two of their most recent albums Guidance and Memorial.
    Chelsea Wolfe is awesome as well, very dark sounding music but her
    voice is beautiful. She sings on the Russian Circles song
    *[Memorial](https://open.spotify.com/track/5Y6u1FBAsYsfUAzBX7ym7k).*
    Beautiful. While we are on the subject of bands that can be
    considered
    ["post-metal"](http://www.nytimes.com/2005/09/18/arts/music/heavy-metal-gets-an-mfa.html),
    the tragically named band
    [Isis](https://open.spotify.com/artist/2vsXeWGC8rILp3rpSN2Fyk), is
    probably my favorite. The
    [album](https://open.spotify.com/album/6gmZNk93ZFvafI3LMUo0sj) they
    released in
    [2009](http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/03/arts/music/03play.html)
    right before they broke up is a masterpiece. Sadly the morons of
    America forced the band to posthumously clarify that they have no
    association with any foreign militia groups, and now I can't wear
    any of my favorite t-shirts in public. Album still rules though.
    Their lead singer and guitarist Aaron Turner sang on the Chelsea
    Wolfe track
    *[Vex](https://open.spotify.com/track/020Ur4viDDscjoH9IvpHRE).*

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Daughters](https://open.spotify.com/artist/1LhK7wn59Hq6GNN4sUS3ih) -
    Hated these guys the first, second, and third time I tried to listen
    to them. They started out as an abrasive noise band, and the singer
    screamed like an electrified chipmunk. Everything after that album
    though has been brilliant. The music slowed down a bit, and the
    singer began using more of a Nick Cave meets David Yow vocal style
    that is just awesome. They had a well deserved reputation for
    degeneracy that led to their break up in 2013, but they reformed in
    2018 and put out one of the best punk albums of the year. One of the
    few bands making music that feels both dangerous and genuine.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Superchunk](https://open.spotify.com/artist/7lmde7T1WJPFwv1eR6melP) -
    One of the first \"indie\" bands I really got into, by way of my
    college roommate and best friend in 1998. *Indoor Living* is still
    my favorite album of theirs, but they have recently been putting out
    some incredibly solid albums, including 2018\'s What a Time to be
    Alive. These guys can still play circles around bands half their
    age. Their singer and bassist also run \[www.mergerecords.com Merge
    Records\], which puts out some of the best albums of the year, every
    year.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Pelican](https://open.spotify.com/artist/0Gq06EJlfPumvCdMsnkJFp) -
    Another \"instru-metal\" band from Chicago. Their first few albums
    show a lot of promise, but I don\'t think they really hit their
    stride until 2009 when they released *Ephemeral* and *What We All
    Come to Need*. WWACTN\'s follow-up in 2013, Forever Becoming, is
    excellent. I\'m still digesting their new album *Nighttime Stories*,
    but it\'s definitely good. A friend of mine was so wildly over
    served at one of their shows that he threw away his phone at the end
    of the night. Just put it in the trash and went to bed.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Dark Lord Day 2017 ft. [High on
    Fire](https://open.spotify.com/artist/1eiIIImNeUj3vpaocWqoOf) - A
    day long metal and beer festival in northwest Indiana. It\'s a
    pretty amazing gathering of weirdos drinking way too much in the
    sun. As I was
    [quoted](https://www.nwitimes.com/news/local/lake/dark-lord-day-craft-beer-festival-draws-thousands/article_1d638f12-d930-5890-9c4a-5dc22d6522c9.html)
    observing, \"Everybody comes here, goes too hard, can\'t handle it
    and sleeps in the dirt.\" My Instagram feed from the day confirms
    this. High on Fire were awesome though, Matt Pike is a legend (and
    now a [Grammy
    winner!](https://www.grammy.com/grammys/artists/high-fire))

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Dark Lord Day 2019 ft. [The Atlas
    Moth](https://open.spotify.com/artist/4v24AzWBIlowZwnktXSlwX) - My
    second time to DLD and it rained a bunch, one of the bands cancelled
    the day before after their singer was in a bicycle accident, and the
    people watching was nowhere near what it was in 2017. Atlas Moth
    were awesome though, as was High on Fire, back to headline after
    being direct support in 2017.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Modest
    Mouse](https://open.spotify.com/artist/1yAwtBaoHLEDWAnWR87hBT) -
    Another band I was introduced to my freshman year of college back
    in 1998. I\'d never heard anything like them, and was hooked from
    the first 10 seconds of *The Lonesome Crowded West*, which is
    probably still my favorite album they\'ve put out. When I was living
    in Chicago an mp3 cd with four of their albums on it got stuck in my
    car stereo. I still wasn\'t sick of listening to it 3 years later
    when I finally sold the car, with the cd still stuck in the player.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Better Oblivion Community
    Center](https://open.spotify.com/album/5622zSt4RLqNSPShdqmWpj)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Typhoon](https://open.spotify.com/artist/6p6WlxIkeWH8yOYvciFfVl)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Helms Alee](https://open.spotify.com/artist/11O8jS9NNmewQkpiGXu0eb)
    & [Earth](https://open.spotify.com/artist/4mTFQE6aiehScgvreB9llC)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Young
    Widows](https://open.spotify.com/artist/1DmeNQWfU70wyD5wXP2UgR) &
    [Child Bite](https://open.spotify.com/artist/1Sk45af6ymdv4nyw3ca6f4)