# LA County Department of Workforce Development, Aging, and Community Services {#la_county_department_of_workforce_development_aging_and_community_services}

## Background

The Los Angeles County Workforce Development Aging and Community
Services (WDACS) provides the following services:

-   Connects individuals to careers and employers to a skilled workforce
-   Ensures the well-being of older and dependent adults in the
    community
-   Resolves conflict and improve human relations in the LA County

For more information, see: <https://wdacs.lacounty.gov/>

## CPL Research Partnership {#cpl_research_partnership}

The California Policy Lab at UCLA is working with WDACS to conduct the
Los Angeles County Workforce Programs - System Pulse study. The research
study focuses on understanding and potentially improving the provision
of workforce development services to unemployed and low-income
individuals in the Los Angeles County. The work performed consists of a
quantitative analysis of the incidence of various program and a range of
outcome metrics, including the standard WIOA outcome metrics, by
priority groups (Stage 1) and the causal impact of different services on
these metrics (Stage 2). The research will explore ways to exploit the
empirical findings to improve service delivery and ultimately outcome
metrics (Stage 3). Finally, it will explore the feasibility to assist
WDACS in assessing the use and impact of employer and business services
(Stage 4).

The scope of this study is to analyze and evaluate the adult, dislocated
worker, and youth programs covered by the Workforce Innovation and
Opportunity Act (WIOA) Title I. The Workforce Innovation and Opportunity
Act (WIOA) was signed into law by former President Obama on July 22,
2014. The WIOA was designed "\[to\] amend the Workforce Investment Act
(WIA) of 1998 to strengthen the United States workforce development
system through innovation in, and alignment and improvement of,
employment, training, and education programs in the United States, and
to promote individual and national economic growth, and for other
purposes." For additional details, see:
<https://www.doleta.gov/wioa/about/overview/>

## Data Holdings {#data_holdings}

CPL currently has access to de-identified participant level data from
2011 through 2020. The data covers services provided under WIOA Title I,
but not those provided under Titles II, III, and IV. The Los Angeles
County is divided into seven local workforce development areas, as
illustrated by the following map:
<https://www.labormarketinfo.edd.ca.gov/file/maps/LWDA2017Boundary.pdf>.
CPL currently has access to data covered by the Los Angeles County and
Los Angeles City local workforce development areas, excluding data from
the other five minor local workforce development areas. The data
elements follow a similar structure as those under the participant
individual record layout (PIRL) setup by the Department of Labor. For
the most recent version of the PIRL, see
<https://www.doleta.gov/performance/pfdocs/ETA_9172_DOL_PIRL_Non-Material-Change.pdf>.
The PIRL was used as a guide to request data elements from WDACS for the
research study.

## Data Linking {#data_linking}

The data has not been linked to any external data sources as it lacks
the necessary personal identifying information and it is not covered by
the data agreement.

## CPL contact person {#cpl_contact_person}

[Brenda Garcia Lemus](mailto:bglemus@ucla.edu)