## Rules for Writing and Editing {#rules_for_writing_and_editing}

Short words over long. *Rain*, not *precipitation*. *Dead*, not
*deceased.*

Fewer words over several. *Buses and trains,* not *public transportation
services*. *Overdose,* not *adverse medication imbalance. Poor,* not
*socio-economically disadvantaged.*

Active verbs over passive. *Rioters burned shops in several cities last
night,* not *There were riots in several cities last night in which
several shops were burned.*

Positive over negative. *The project failed*, not *The project was not
successful.*

Concrete over abstract. *The teacher laughed,* not *The teacher
expressed her amusement.*

Details over generalities. *Nothing excites me like the roar of the
crowd and the crack of leather off a bat over I like attending baseball
games.*

Avoid unnecessary verbiage. *The theater seats 600,* not *The theater
has seating accommodation for 600 people.*

Avoid euphemisms, especially about death. *He died,* not *He passed
away.*

Short, punchy verbs and nouns over flowery adjectives and adverbs.

In reported speech, stick to *said* or *told.* Not *exclaimed, opined,
gushed, cracked wise, stated, expostulated, asseverated* etc.

Stick to familiar acronyms only; avoid them altogether if you can.

Be allergic to officialese, especially when it seeks to disguise an ugly
truth. An *officer-involved shooting* is a *police shooting.*
*Collateral damage* is military-speak for *civilian deaths.* *Secure
housing* in prison is *solitary confinement.*

Avoid academic jargon. You may be familiar with *longitudinal studies,
doubleÂ¬-blind tests, scalability* and *linear regression curves*; your
readers are not.

## Principles for Briefing Papers and Memos {#principles_for_briefing_papers_and_memos}

Tell the reader what\'s new.

Tell the reader why it matters.

Privilege NARRATIVE over PROCESS.

Get quickly to the point; don\'t waste words.

Remember who your reader is and write accordingly.

Contextualize statistics, even groundbreaking statistics; don\'t lead
with them.

Remember, avoid those acronyms.

Be allergic to academic jargon and officialese. Reduce everything to its
simplest form (but, as Einstein once said, no simpler than that).

Think of your first sentence like clothes on a clothes hanger - the art
is in hanging an attractive array of clothes, but not so many that some
start to fall off. In other words, don\'t be too skimpy in your intro,
but don\'t overload it either.

Let narrative guide the rest of your briefing paper too. Weave in
statistics and the necessary background within the context of a
narrative frame; don\'t present data or historical context in great
unwieldy slabs.

Your methodology is the effort you expend so the reader doesn\'t have
to. Refer to methodology only to bolster the credibility of what you are
presenting, or, in rare instances, to explain things that would not
otherwise make sense. Even then, refer to it in terms that a
non-specialist can easily understand.

Wear your learning lightly; you will impress people more by being
artfully simple than needlessly complicated.

No better summation than Elmore Leonard\'s: leave out the parts that
readers tend to skip.