## Purpose/Overview

CPL take workplace safety seriously. Feeling safe at work and receiving
appropriate, responsive care when you experience an injury is critical
for overall health and staff morale. This section provides general
information on and specific steps for [Workers'
Compensation](https://uhs.berkeley.edu/facstaff/disability-management/workerscomp),
a state-mandated program that provides benefits to employees who are
injured or develop an illness as a result of their job.

## Checklist

1\. Notify your supervisor

2\. File an official report (optional) Get an ergo evaluation

3\. Get medical treatment

4\. File a Claim (if applicable) Approval process

5\. Benefits payment

## Steps

If a staff member experiences pain as a result of their work or
workstation set-up, they should:

1\. notify their supervisor;

2\. get an ergonomic evaluation;

3\. see a doctor;

4\. work with the Operations team to purchase recommended equipment; and
file a report/claim, if discomfort persists after a couple weeks.

`*Per campus ergonomist, it may not be necessary to report a Workers' Compensation claim in every case. However, staff are strongly encouraged to visit the `[`Tang`` ``Center`](https://uhs.berkeley.edu/bewellatwork/occhealth)` (campus) or their health provider's occupational health clinic (not their regular physician) if they experience any pain as a result of their work or workstation set-up (or if they think this may be the case). Visiting a health provider can be done at any time, even before filing a Workers’ Compensation report. Note that if a staff member visits the Tang Center for work-related issues, a Workers’ Compensation claim will be automatically processed. This is a “no-fault” system and there are no downsides to visiting a health provider either on or off campus.`

**Below are the steps employees and their supervisors are required
follow:**

1\. **Report:** The first step is to report any injury to your
supervisor. If the staff member wishes to file a Workers' Compensation
report, their supervisor will complete this [required
form](https://uhs.berkeley.edu/sites/default/files/dms-incidentreport.pdf).
(Note that it is possible to seek medical treatment first, before filing
a Workers' Compensation claim.)

If you are a supervisor, fax the above form to Disability Management
Services (DMS)\--instructions are on the form\--and send an email to the
CPL HR Associate and HR Business partner to notify them.

2\. **Get medical treatment:** For non-emergency care, you are
encouraged to make an appointment with the Occupational Health clinic of
your medical provider (e.g. Kaiser), or at the Tang Center (campus). The
provider will then send a report to UC\'s third-party administrator
Sedgwick; and a follow up appointment for 2 weeks later may be
scheduled. If Physical Therapy is requested, the provider requests
authorization from Sedgwick. There should not be any co-pays or out of
pocket expenses for staff during this process (up to a certain dollar
amount; see your plan or contact Sedgwick for details). If the claim is
denied, staff will be responsible for any costs after that point (this
can be appealed). Note that UC Berkeley's ergonomics department should
contact you to arrange an ergonomic evaluation if one has not already
been scheduled.

3\. **File a Claim:** Depending on your doctor's recommendation, you
would then be sent a Claim form from DMS. Once received, share this form
with the HR Associate and your supervisor (Sedgwick will have filled out
the employer section) and they will add the date to line #14 in the
employer section and fax to DMS. DMS submits the form to Sedgwick.
Please let the CPL HR Associate and your supervisor know if you don\'t
hear from DMS or Sedgwick within a couple of days.

4\. **Approval process:** Sedgwick will contact you to discuss your
claim, investigate the incident and determine compensability.

5\. **Benefits payment:** If approved, temporary disability (TD)
benefits are paid until you return to work or the medical condition
becomes permanent and stationary (P&S).

Click this link for additional resources for employees and see the Tang
Center and DMS Salesforce records for information on how to schedule an
appointment and who to contact with Workers' Compensation questions.

-   Supervisors should visit this link for a complete checklist of
    steps, and to be prepared when an injury occurs at work.

## Transportation on campus for Accomodations {#transportation_on_campus_for_accomodations}

[The
Loop](https://dac.berkeley.edu/accommodations-services/mobility-accommodations/loop-golf-cart)
is a golf cart that provides intra-campus rides for eligible faculty,
staff, and students with disabilities on a first-come, first-served
basis. This service was created to assist persons with mobility
disabilities (including temporary disability as a result of injury) and
visual impairments. The Loop only operates on the core campus. Access
must be requested - Campus verifies the requestor's disability needs
based on available documentation, and approves requests as appropriate.

For guests/visitors of CPL who need assistance: CPL staff can submit
requests for the Loop golf cart on their behalf by creating an account
with your Calnet ID. Submit an application at access.berkeley.edu/loop.
See here for details.

## Resources

-   [Occupational Health at UC
    Berkeley](https://uhs.berkeley.edu/bewellatwork/occhealth)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [UC Berkeley Workers\' Compensation
    Site](https://uhs.berkeley.edu/facstaff/disability-management/workerscomp)

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [The
    Loop](https://access.berkeley.edu/accommodations-services/mobility-accommodations/loop-golf-cart)